{"Main text":"142 Comments\nThere\u2019s a moment in Captain America: The Winter Soldier when Robert Redford, playing a higher-up at the intelligence agency SHIELD, says that in order to improve things you often need to tear down what\u2019s come before \u2014 no matter what the cost. It ties in to the movie\u2019s larger themes about freedom, security, and how people are often willing to sacrifice one for the other, but it also brings to mind Marvel itself.\nSince Joss Whedon\u2019s The Avengers broke box-office records, the company has made a point of switching things up to keep its slate fresh. Iron Man 3 was a darker, \u201980s-fueled take on Tony Stark , and the upcoming Guardians of the Galaxy is a comic adventure based on characters that even die-hards may not have heard of. Marvel\u2019s taking some risks, and with Captain America: The Winter Soldier it jettisons the primary-color innocence of the original film for a sinister tale of conspiracy and intrigue. It\u2019s exactly what the series needed.\nA 1970s-style conspiracy thriller\nThe film finds Captain America (Chris Evans) still adjusting to life in the present day. After an impressive boat rescue sequence with Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson, snarky banter turned up to 11), Cap finds out that SHIELD has been secretly building a trio of massive helicarrier ships. Part of an initiative led by Samuel L. Jackson\u2019s Nick Fury and his colleague Alexander Pierce (Redford), the ships are massive airborne drones designed to be the ultimate deterrent \u2014 but they\u2019re also able to analyze personal communications NSA-style, using that information to preemptively determine who will commit crimes before they happen. Cap is unable to square the project\u2019s Orwellian implications with his old-school ideals, but when Fury learns that the project may be compromised Captain America becomes the only person he can turn to.\nDirectors Joe and Anthony Russo have said they wanted to make a 1970s-style conspiracy thriller in the mold of Three Days of the Condor, and they\u2019ve succeeded. This is a gritty, dirtier Captain America, and everything from the look of the film to Redford\u2019s steady presence sets up that vibe perfectly. There\u2019s an immediacy to the surveillance-state premise, and while it\u2019s not necessarily a new idea (Christopher Nolan touched upon similar themes in The Dark Knight), the ongoing Edward Snowden leaks make it that much more resonant. As a World War II-era character trying to understand the ethics of our modern world, Captain America is in many ways a perfect choice to explore these kinds of issues, and the film crafts a story that is admirably nuanced from a character perspective.\nAction scenes that actually feel dangerous\nKeeping in line with the \u201970s aesthetic, the Russos largely pull back from the overuse of computer-generated imagery, and it pays off wonderfully. An early chase scene, with cars smashing into one another and cartwheeling in flames, is one of the best action sequences we\u2019ve seen in any Marvel film. The sound design is a particular standout \u2014 the ka-thunk of Cap\u2019s shield on cement cutting through the mix \u2014 and the result is action that actually feels dangerous for once. Marvel movies have never skimped on fights or pyrotechnics, but their lead characters rarely feel like they're at risk. That changes completely in The Winter Soldier, to an almost unbearable degree.\nIf allowed to embrace all of its instincts The Winter Soldier could have been a true action classic, but like a high-end sports car stuck on a suburban street it feels held back from reaching its true potential. Despite all of the new elements brought to the table by the Russos and the screenwriting team of Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely, this is still a Marvel movie \u2014 and that brings a number of requirements. It has to introduce characters that have no purpose right now, but presumably will down the road (Agent 13, played by Emily VanCamp). It has to service the existing comics mythology while still maintaining accessibility for broader audiences (Anthony Mackie\u2019s Falcon is a former paratrooper that can fly thanks to a ridiculous winged backpack). And it has to serve as a standalone film \u2014 but also function as a step down the road towards The Avengers: Age of Ultron.\nThe most glaring example is the title of the film itself. Yes, the Winter Soldier (a menacing Sebastian Stan) is a character in this film, and while I\u2019ll leave out the specifics he has particular significance to Captain America. But his storyline is grafted on without really impacting the plot or the story\u2019s larger ethical concerns. He\u2019s glorious and flashy, but he\u2019s a supporting henchman at best, and the call-out in the movie\u2019s name comes across as nothing more than an aggressive hat tip to Marvel\u2019s loyal fans.\nThe film\u2019s most interesting elements fall away in the final half-hour as it lunges from set piece to set piece, but ultimately these are minor complaints; even at its most conventional there\u2019s no denying this is one of the strongest movies Marvel has released. While Iron Man 3 may have left some wishing for a return to form, the takeaway from Captain America: The Winter Soldier is that change is not only good \u2014 it\u2019s absolutely essential. By interpreting an iconic character through a modern-day lens, the Russo brothers have crafted an inspired thriller that transcends superhero movies, and given that they\u2019ll be directing the third Captain America hopefully they can take things even further next time. As it turns out, you don\u2019t need to tear down what\u2019s come before to make something great. You just need the courage to take some chances.\nCaptain America: The Winter Soldier is now playing internationally. It opens in the US on Friday, April 4th. All images courtesy of Marvel Studios.\n","Title":"'Captain America: The Winter Soldier' review | The Verge","Tags":["culture","movie-reviews","entertainment"]}