{"Main text":"93 Comments\nYoung adult novels, and the movies they inspire, have all but taken over the notion of the futuristic sci-fi dystopia. Once the domain of Brazil and Blade Runner, the landscape has instead become home to sagas that use the background of an oppressive future to explore universal themes like the importance of individuality \u2014 with a love triangle or two thrown in for good measure. When the pieces come together just right, the result can be The Hunger Games , a series that reaches beyond younger audiences, becoming a cultural phenomenon in the process.\nThe latest stab at building a new YA film franchise is Divergent, based on Veronica Roth\u2019s best-selling novel. At first glance the film checks all the right boxes, but despite some impressive visual world building and a strong lead performance it\u2019s never able to find the groove it\u2019s so clearly looking for.\nThose that don't neatly fit are an existential threat\nIn a vaguely defined future Chicago, society has broken itself down into five distinct factions based on personality types. When children turn 16, they take an aptitude test that tells them who they should be, and then in a formal ceremony they stand before an auditorium of friends and family and choose who they want to be. Beatrice (Shailene Woodley) is from Abnegation, a quiet, charity-minded sect, but when she takes her test, the results say she doesn\u2019t fit into any of the ready-made categories. She\u2019s what\u2019s known as \"divergent,\" and as you might expect, anybody that doesn\u2019t slot into place is seen as an existential threat to society itself.\nRenaming herself Tris, she sides with Dauntless \u2014 the group of warriors that protect Chicago. Through a series of tests and training she learns to embrace the fiercer aspects of her personality, all the while keeping her test results under cover. One of the factions has been quietly laying the groundwork for revolution, however, and Tris soon learns that the only way to save her family and the people of Chicago will be to reveal that she is divergent after all.\nAwkward attempts at romance play more like parody\nAs a metaphor it\u2019s about as subtle as an earthquake, but it works largely thanks to Woodley\u2019s performance. The actress has been compared to Jennifer Lawrence for obvious reasons, and she\u2019s able to pull off a similar mix of movie-star charisma and vulnerability \u2014 but Woodley\u2019s Tris feels more like a real flesh-and-blood teenager than Katniss Everdeen ever has. Woodley gracefully navigates Tris\u2019 transformation from supplicant to soldier, but problems arise in the plot-heavy second half of the film. While she remains the focal point, Tris is dramatically sidelined as nearly every major plot twist comes courtesy of coincidence or happy accidents. Other characters rush to tell her the latest plot detail; somebody appears from nowhere to save her in an action sequence; Tris discovers she can zip through a hallucinatory mental test just because it\u2019s in her divergent nature. For a story that\u2019s ostensibly about taking ownership of one\u2019s own destiny, it\u2019s just bizarre for a character to not have to try that hard to reach many of her goals.\nThe rest of the cast are given similarly difficult challenges \u2014 even Kate Winslet seems disengaged \u2014 though both Zoë Kravitz (X-Men: First Class) and Jai Courtney (A Good Day To Die Hard) are able to leave an impression as Dauntless team members. As Tris\u2019 handler Four, Theo James serves as a passable foil for Woodley, but the movie\u2019s awkward attempts at romance play more like parody for those that aren\u2019t already invested in the relationship from the novel.\nIt\u2019s the film\u2019s biggest shortcoming: the inescapable sense that it was designed for lovers of the books rather than fresh audiences. Numerous scenes feel like they could be condensed or cut from the nearly two-and-a-half hour running time. Director Neil Burger (The Illusionist) crafts a beautiful world of sweeping futuristic buildings, but there\u2019s no real sense of how this alternate  world came to be. Class resentment is a major component of the film\u2019s rising stakes, but as a plot device it seemingly pops up out of nowhere just as it\u2019s needed. Granted, some of those are weaknesses in Roth\u2019s novel, but an adaptation provides an opportunity to improve upon problems, not just repeat them.\nWith a passionate fan base in place, none of that will likely hurt Divergent at first, and with sequels already slated for 2015 and 2016 it seems we\u2019ll be seeing more of Roth\u2019s world. Of course, that was also the plan with The Mortal Instruments: City of Bones, a YA adaptation that had its sequel delayed after it failed to perform at the box office. Divergent sits in a better position, however, with a compelling hero securely in place and mistakes that can be fixed the next time around \u2014 should the filmmakers actually decide to fix them.\nDivergent is now playing. Photos courtesy of Summit Entertainment.\n","Title":"'Divergent' review | The Verge","Tags":["culture","movie-reviews","entertainment"]}