{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nThe Hunger Games: Mockingjay Part 1 is a film that delivers on its premise far too well.\nSet directly after The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, Mockingjay follows Katniss Everdeen once she\u2019s managed to escape the sugar-coated oppression of Panem, a post-apocalyptic America where she\u2019s been repeatedly forced to compete in child-murder tournaments dressed up as beauty pageants. At the beginning of the film, she\u2019s been hidden in the secret, highly militarized underground society of long-lost District 13. Unsurprisingly, a reality TV star and revolutionary figurehead suddenly exiled to the sidelines of a budding rebellion can\u2019t do very much. And even less surprisingly, it\u2019s hard to make a good blockbuster about a hero being virtually useless.\nMockingjay was easily the weakest book in Suzanne Collins\u2019 trilogy, so it\u2019s not really fair to blame the actors and filmmakers for all its shortcomings. If nothing else, they\u2019ve made most of the characters more likeable. But they\u2019re the ones responsible for splitting an already slow book into two films (Part 2 premieres next year), and there\u2019s no conceivable reason to do so besides inflating box-office revenue. This is especially true when its basic structure stops the cast and crew from playing to their strengths. Panem\u2019s colorful Capitol and the artificial Hunger Games arenas gave designers in the first two films carte blanche to create some of the most beautiful sci-fi environments of this decade, and the whole thing was wrapped in a clever parody of media-saturated modern culture.\nMockingjay, by contrast, is gray and meandering, often visually indistinguishable from any number of other dystopias. Its most over-the-top recurring characters, like ageless Hunger Games host Caesar Flickerman, are limited to somberly discussing the conflict, and its new ones don\u2019t do much more than hold cameras. There\u2019s something potentially interesting in this contrast between the civil war and Capitol business as usual, but played out, it just feels like a missed opportunity. And the media bombast, which is far tamer and more conventional this time around, is both less entertaining and less believable as effective propaganda.\n'Mockingjay' is stuck pretending that Katniss is more exciting than the revolution\nForcing Katniss to confront her own limits didn\u2019t have to be a bad thing. While she\u2019s the prototypical young adult tough girl \u2014 rebellious, self-sufficient, and handy with a bow and arrow \u2014 the series usually avoids the easy path of contrasting her against \"weak\" traditional femininity or flattening her emotions. Her allies\u2019 success at manipulating the gossip machine of Panem\u2019s decadent Capitol is as important as her own success in battle, and she\u2019s openly reliant on her nurturing younger sister Prim. Now too important to join the fighting as more than a publicity stunt, she\u2019s left making videos to inspire the Panem rebels, unable to even save her friend and love interest Peeta, who was captured at the end of the last film.\nBut this is an action franchise, so Mockingjay is stuck having to pretend that her frustrated impotence is more exciting than the real, massive uprising that\u2019s going on everywhere else. The filmmakers do this by looking at war through the lens of propaganda, which  provided great momentum for Catching Fire. Resistance through media works in the world of Panem, where Katniss and the people around her manage to turn everything from talk show narratives to haute couture into a weapon against the Capitol. Unfortunately, it\u2019s a theme that just doesn\u2019t fit Mockingjay. Subverting pop culture is a tool of the powerless, which Katniss now emphatically isn\u2019t \u2014 she\u2019s living in a heavily fortified bunker full of missiles and fighter planes.\nThere are still a few satisfying moments, like the series\u2019 dryly hilarious battle makeovers: characters pore over a top-secret fashion sketch like it\u2019s the plans for an enemy base, then go test the deadly capabilities of their made-for-TV weapons. Overall, though, it\u2019s just tedious watching District 13\u2019s leadership brainstorm video pitches on a futuristic whiteboard. One of the subtle running themes, evoked more clearly in the novels, is that District 13 is in its way as corrupt and shallow as the Capitol, obsessed with photo ops and procedure instead of principles or effective tactics. The Hunger Games franchise is unique because of how well it understands the power of images and pop culture, but it\u2019s also incapable of breaking out of the larger narrative that pervades young adult literature and, ironically, Hollywood: that mass culture is inherently vapid and artificial, to be participated in only unwillingly or with a knowing roll of the eyes. In Mockingjay, it comes off as knee-jerk cynicism, poisoning the genuinely emotional scenes.\nMaking it the focus of the story is also a strange choice, given that Mockingjay is both larger in scope and markedly grimmer than its predecessors. The titular Hunger Games don\u2019t appear, so there\u2019s no veneer of fantasy or high technology left to cast over the film\u2019s copious (albeit bloodless) violence, just hospital bombings and summary executions all the way down. When it wants to \u2014 which, sadly, is not very often \u2014 the film can deliver a gorgeous, adrenaline-fueled action scene. And Donald Sutherland\u2019s President Snow remains a dark, if sadly underused, villain, a grandfatherly sociopath who always seems one step ahead of the protagonists\u2019 carefully drawn plans.\nMore bow, less camera\nUsually, though, Katniss and the whole of District 13 are reduced to  Zapp Brannigan-esque posturing, urging Panem\u2019s rebels to wage guerrilla skirmishes that are effectively mass suicides. The late Philip Seymour Hoffman, a mysterious mastermind in Catching Fire, projects mildly irritated boredom as the second-in-command of District 13. Katniss\u2019 long-time mentor Haymitch (Woody Harrelson) has gone from guilt-ridden drunk to sober PR rep. The only real exceptions to this are effete Capitol lackey Effie Trinket (Elizabeth Banks) and fellow Hunger Games survivor Finnick Odair (Sam Claflin) \u2014 the former is delightfully hammy and the latter charmingly vulnerable, and they\u2019re both given small but meaningful character arcs.\nThe most positive interpretation of Mockingjay is that it\u2019s a daring postmodern step past simple satire of the reality TV-loving masses. Katniss was a hero of action in The Hunger Games, taking her sister\u2019s place in the Games and manipulating the Capitol into changing the rules to save her. She was a hero of reaction in Catching Fire, unwittingly playing out her part in a larger scheme. Now, Mockingjay is creating its own version of David Foster Wallace\u2019s hero of non-action in Infinite Jest : not a character \"beyond calm, divorced from all stimulus\" but one that genuinely has no existence or effect beyond her appearance on a screen within a screen. A character who, after years of manipulating her appearance, has actually started to become television.\nUnfortunately, I never bothered to finish Infinite Jest. So I hope the second half of Mockingjay spends more time with her behind a bow again, not in front of a camera.\n","Title":"'The Hunger Games: Mockingjay Part 1' review: this is how a revolution dies | The Verge","Tags":["culture","review","movie-reviews","entertainment"]}