{"Main text":"298 Comments\nWhen utilized as a movie plot device, time travel has the ability to do a great many things. It can refresh an ailing franchise, introduce new characters, and even establish an alternate timeline that introduces the possibilities of new scenarios without adversely affecting the previously established mythology . As J.J. Abrams\u2019 Star Trek showed, all of this can also be accomplished without a movie feeling like a massive, unnecessarily complicated game of connect-the-dots.\nBryan Singer\u2019s X-Men: Days of Future Past is a time-travel tale that serves as both sequel and mash-up, combining the casts from the original X-Men trilogy with the youngsters from the swinging, 1960s-set X-Men: First Class. The result, sadly, is less than the sum of its parts. Instead of a thrilling new adventure, it plays like a hugely expensive remake of It\u2019s a Wonderful Life, with Hugh Jackman\u2019s Wolverine acting as an adamantium-clawed guardian angel forced to show the bickering mutants how bad the world will be if they don't just get along.\nWolverine travels to the past to prevent the future\nThe movie opens in a post-apocalyptic future, where mountainous robots, dubbed Sentinels, are programmed with a single purpose: track down and exterminate a new crop of super-powered mutants (among them, Omar Sy\u2019s Bishop and Fan Bingbing\u2019s Blink, who has the memorable power of creating shimmery portals). Magneto (Ian McKellen) and Professor X (Patrick Stewart) are there, too, even though at least one of them died in the third X-Men (no matter). They are slower and look tired, and not just because they\u2019re trapped in an unnecessary sequel. As this movie begins, they are losing the war, and desperate times call for desperate measures.\nThe remaining X-Men, now clad in quasi-futuristic black rubber, come up with an idea: using the teleportation abilities of Kitty Pryde (Ellen Page), they\u2019ll send Wolverine back to the 1970s to prevent an assassination that will lead, in a typically roundabout way, to all of these damn Sentinels killing everyone in the future. It\u2019s in this scenario that Wolverine is forced to unite young Magneto (Michael Fassbender) and young Professor X (James McAvoy), and convince them that their partnership can save the world.\nNifty set pieces are buried under shoddy filmmaking\nThe danger in a movie that\u2019s so full of stuff like this is that momentum can get lost in the process. It\u2019s one of X-Men: Days of Future Past\u2019s biggest problems, especially in its first hour. After reconciling Professor X and Magneto, Wolverine has to stop Mystique (Jennifer Lawrence) from murdering Bolivar Trask (Peter Dinklage from Game of Thrones), the man who created the Sentinels in the first place. But that path has already been laid out for him before he ever travels back in time; Wolverine just has to follow it, and there\u2019s little excitement as a result. And then when there are nifty set pieces, like when the future-world mutants team up to try and defeat the Sentinels, they\u2019re buried under shoddy filmmaking, chaotic editing, and dreary 3D cinematography, punctuated only by the seemingly endless exposition.\nX-Men: First Class, which this film is ostensibly a sequel to, had a singularly zippy energy; it was sexy, funny, and sleek. That was thanks largely to director Matthew Vaughn \u2014 who offered his own skewed take on the universe \u2014 and the new cast, which had swagger for days (Michael Fassbender as young, Nazi-hunting Magneto in particular). Singer has never been the stylist Vaughn is, but he did bring a level of social consciousness to the first two X-Men movies, using fear of mutants as an effective metaphor for minority discrimination in our own world. There\u2019s been excitement around Singer\u2019s return as a result, because even if the movie looked lousy (unfortunately it does), there was the expectation that it would at least be about something bigger and more complex than mutants firing laser beams at each other.\nSadly, there just isn\u2019t time for moral or social issues when so much gummy plot has to get worked through. There are attempts at some kind of political consciousness, like a scene where Mystique goes to Vietnam, but the sequence doesn\u2019t pay off, and Singer seems to have ditched the mutants-as-outcasts metaphor almost completely. Though this isn\u2019t to say that there aren\u2019t some lovely little moments (the appearance of Evan Peters\u2019 Quicksilver, who shows up to break Magneto out of jail, is a particular highlight because unlike the rest of the movie it\u2019s actually funny). With every character burdened by regret and hopeless about the future, there is a weird kind of emotional power that runs just beneath the surface of X-Men: Days of Future Past, but even that\u2019s only tapped into every so often, like in a mind-boggling sequence where the older Professor X talks to his younger self.\nEven the best moments don't add up to much\nThe problem is that these moments don\u2019t add up to much because the movie has very little in the way of actual stakes or tension. It\u2019s a problem with most prequels and it\u2019s compounded by the fact that Days of Future Past is a time-travel tale: if Wolverine succeeds in his mission, then not only will the horribly monochromatic future of murderous robots be undone, but the events depicted in several of the other movies in the series will also cease to exist. Instead of some clever framing device, the time-travel angle instead reveals itself to be a cynical mechanism meant to simultaneously reboot the original thread of X-movies while also allowing the First Class generation to continue, for as long as the actors\u2019 ironclad contracts allow (work has already begun on a sequel, ominously dubbed X-Men: Apocalypse). It\u2019s undoubtedly one of the reasons the actors, even sparkplugs like Jackman and Fassbender, seem so uninterested and unengaged: they also realize that nothing really matters here. It\u2019s the end of the world as they know it, and they feel fine.\nX-Men: Days of Future Past opens Friday, May 23rd. All images courtesy of Marvel and 20th Century Fox.\n","Title":"'X-Men: Days of Future Past' review | The Verge","Tags":["culture","movie-reviews","entertainment"]}