{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nAn hour\u2019s train ride away from London resides the world\u2019s largest aircraft. Called the Airlander 10, it\u2019s a 300-foot-long throwback to a bygone era when it was believed that airships and dirigibles would fill the skies and become the dominant means by which we moved goods and people around. Jet-fueled planes ended up fulfilling that ambition more adroitly, but the Airlander is the product of a team passionately convinced that airships still have a role to play in the modern world.\nOriginally designed as a surveillance and reconnaissance craft for the US Army\u2019s Long Endurance Multi-intelligence Vehicle program, the Airlander was intended to remain in the sky for up to 21 days while carrying 2,500 pounds of communications and sensor equipment. It took its maiden flight in the summer of 2012, however budget cutbacks and project delays eventually deprived the ship of its funding and left it in limbo until the original designers at Hybrid Air Vehicles (HAV) bought it back late last year. They spent $301,000 to acquire the prototype, which was the linchpin of an investment of over $154 million from the Army.\nWhat started life as a US Army project is turning to more peaceful tasks like covering sports\nNow back in its British homeland, that same Airlander that flew two years ago is preparing to do it all over again, only with a reduced maximum flight time of five days and an increased payload of over 20,000 pounds. Its designers\u2019 new aim is to substitute planes on short-haul cargo flights as well as helicopters for specific purposes like sports broadcasts and even police surveillance. Should the upcoming tests later this year pan out as planned, a second Airlander will be built to perform those commercial purposes. Passenger flights are another obvious application, not least because the aircraft looks like it was yanked from the pages of a sci-fi comic. Or H.R. Giger\u2019s sketchbook .\nAlthough it looks fantastical, the Airlander\u2019s shape and enormous size do have a purpose. Some 40 percent of the craft\u2019s lift is derived from its aerodynamic form, while the other 60 percent comes from the helium gas within. Four diesel-powered propellers help with steering, taking off, and landing, and there are a further four pressurized air pockets that regulate the pressure inside the main helium compartment and also assist with takeoff and landing. As to the practicality of relying on an expensive and finite resource like helium, HAV says it expects the price of the inert gas to stabilize at its current level, underscoring the extraordinary efficiency of the Airlander. Its cost of operation is apparently between 10 and 20 percent of that for a helicopter, and it only loses 10 percent of its helium per year.\nA paper-thin weave of carbon fiber, mylar, and Kevlar surrounds the helium bubble, giving it the strength and endurance that the earliest airship designs sorely lacked. HAV claims that the Airlander is capable of withstanding multiple lightning strikes and can have any punctures repaired while still airborne. It will be quite a while before the hundreds of tests and validations still required for airworthiness are completed, but the Airlander 10 already has the financial backing of Iron Maiden's Bruce Dickinson and countless other fans, so support for the project is unlikely to wane this time. And if you want one for yourself, the price is already set at $40 million.\nHint: Use the 's' and 'd' keys to navigate\nTo house the world\u2019s largest aircraft, you need an enormous hangar and that\u2019s exactly what the historic Cardington Airfield in Bedfordshire provides. The Airlander resides behind the emerald-green doors of Hangar 1, which HAV shares with Warner Bros. Pictures. The filmmaking company also owns the nearby Hangar 2, where the new Peter Pan movie starring Hugh Jackman is currently being shot. Not to be outdone by the scale of their neighbors\u2019 venture, the WB producers have apparently constructed a full-scale pirate ship for the movie.\nOriginally built in the 1920s, the hangars are only now being properly renovated, with tidy new green facades replacing the kaleidoscopically rusted old panels.\nThe patchwork of faded, rusted, and worn out metal that covers Hangar 1 is almost artistic in its degradation.\nWelcoming visitors to the HAV offices are a number of Airlander models that make it abundantly clear what this small engineering team is building. The vast airship occupying the majority of the premises is the single focus of the entire company.\nAt present, the Airlander is disassembled and undergoing testing to ensure its airworthiness. Its cockpit is at the front of an elongated storage and fuel section that attaches to the bottom of the helium-filled airship.\nThe usual instrument panels and abundance of switches and toggles stand ready for the trained pilot to command. The co-pilot\u2019s seat is set on rails and can be moved forward for a more scenic view.\nPositioned directly behind the flight deck is a service area, which links to this payload bay. It can accommodate up to 2,750 cubic feet of cargo.\nThe first look at this leviathan construction leaves an inescapable feeling of awe mixed with mild intimidation.\nThe rear of the Airlander is formed of three distinct bubble shapes whereas the front only has two.\nThe fins in the foreground attach to the sides of the airship to help with its steering. The control gauges in the background are for measuring the exact pressure when pumping air into the air ballonets inside the Airlander and the air-filled \"skids\" on which it is transported on the ground.\nThe Airlander is currently filled with air rather than helium since it's still undergoing ground-based testing before proceeding to its first test flight later this year.\nFour diesel-powered engines attach to each corner of the airship to provide steering and the necessary power to take off and land.\nA team from ILC Dover \u2014 an engineering company responsible for developing and testing NASA's space suits \u2014 recently completed a comprehensive set of checks on the integrity of the hull.\nAt present, vertical lift is generated by directing the airflow from the propellers down, but in future versions of the AIrlander, HAV envisions being able to rotate the propeller 90 degrees so they could operate in the same fashion as on helicopters.\nThe engine frames are made out of a composite material, but this is mostly standard equipment all around.\nThe Airlander is designed to be marginally heavier than air. Takeoff is achieved through a combination of the helium's lift, the hull's aerodynamic shape, and the four diesel engines.\nHumans are positively dwarfed by the grand scale of the Airlander.\nKevlar on the outside, carbon fiber on the inside. This airship's helium compartment is protected by a thin, but very durable, composite mesh.\nThe high-strength material of the helium compartment was originally developed for sails used in the Americas Cup yachting race.\nWithout the propellers and flight deck attached to it, the Airlander looks more like a spaceship than an airship.\nThe first test flight could happen as early as this year, with passenger flights expected in 2016.\n","Title":"Airlander 10: up close with the gigantic airship the US Army wanted | The Verge","Tags":["videos","photo-essay","science"]}