{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nApple appears to be testing a pool of cars near San Francisco that are equipped with powerful camera rigs.  A Claycord blog has published photos of a car that  CBS affiliate KPIX 5 has confirmed is leased to Apple. The mysterious cars have been  spotted a number of times over the past several months in and around San Francisco. A video,  published on YouTube in September, also shows a complex camera rig mounted on the roof of a similar Dodge minivan in New York. Both of the cars near San Francisco and New York appear to be equipped with the same LIDAR (Light Detection And Ranging) camera system.\nLIDAR has been used extensively by Google, Nokia, and others to map out imagery for Street View services. The technology is also used in some adaptive cruise control implementations to monitor distances between vehicles and automatically apply the brakes on a car. It\u2019s possible that Apple is using LIDAR to create its own Street View rival, or at least testing that scenario. Apple\u2019s car also includes the  same wheel sensor that Navteq used on its Bing cars previously to create street imagery for Microsoft\u2019s mapping service.\nCould Apple be creating a Google Street View rival?\nApple has been  gradually improving its mapping service since it controversially dropped Google Maps as the default maps app for iOS more than two years ago. Inaccurate listings, poor 3D imagery, and bad driving directions plagued the service initially, but things have improved. Apple Maps still lacks a rival to Google\u2019s Street View, but if Apple is planning its own then it faces a daunting task to match Google\u2019s comprehensive coverage. A test in New York and San Francisco isn't enough to map all of the world\u2019s streets.\nGoogle also uses LIDAR cameras to help power its self-driving cars. Google\u2019s system is mounted on top of its fleet of cars, and the camera spins constantly to evaluate its surroundings. In the video published on YouTube, you can see a spinning camera system at the rear of the vehicle. While it\u2019s possible Apple may be testing its own self-driving car, the company doesn\u2019t have a permit to test them yet. As KPIX 5 points out, that doesn\u2019t mean Apple couldn\u2019t partner with an authorized car company to test them initially. With Apple refusing to comment on the cars, it looks like these curious vehicles will remain a mystery for now.\n","Title":"Apple testing mysterious cars with roof-mounted cameras | The Verge","Tags":["apple","tech\",\"Story Streams\"","\"7836892"]}