{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nDoes It Hold Up is a chance to re-experience childhood favorites of books, movies, TV shows, video games, and other cultural phenomenon decades later. Have they gotten better like a fine wine, or are we drinking cork?\nDid you know that  Batman & Robin is one of the worst movies ever made ? That it killed Batman until Christopher Nolan resurrected it? Well, I have a confession to make: I love it. Sincerely. I recognize that I\u2019m rare here \u2014 it took Netflix just  one month to realize it made a grave error in adding the film to its streaming movies stable. But almost 20 years after it very nearly killed all love for superhero movies at the box office, I enjoy (almost) every minute of it. Not because it\u2019s a good movie. It isn\u2019t. I\u2019m not a crazy person. It\u2019s because it\u2019s fun in a way that some of the best, most memorable comic book movies are, and it\u2019s a reminder of how truly silly this entire genre can be.\nLet's be clear: Batman & Robin is an awful movie\nLet me be clear, lest you decide to cast me into the pit of fire made for woefully misplaced fandom. Batman & Robin is terrible. It\u2019s the Titanic of superhero films (the actual ship, guys, not the James Cameron movie); the movie was born of pure Hollywood hubris for the sake of selling toys, and watching it is watching a major franchise sunk by bad design and even worse puns. The casting, writing, costuming, and even set design were all so bad as to be utterly incoherent. It demonstrates a piss poor understanding of what makes Batman, well, Batman, and it wrecks what little of the source material it actually gets right. Not to mention, yes, the bat nipples. Sure, most of the film\u2019s stars managed to escape what might have been a career-ending vacuum created by the film, but poor Alicia Silverstone\u2019s star fell the furthest from her Clueless heyday. (Meanwhile, the world may never know what happened to Coolio after his decision to marshall Gotham City\u2019s neon motorcycle races.) It takes a singular piece of dogshit cinema for a director to publicly apologize for it \u2014  Sam Raimi recently did so for another classic mess of a modern superhero film, Spider-Man 3 \u2014 and director Joel Schumacher is  still apologizing to this day . It\u2019s that bad.\nAll this being said, there\u2019s a kind of sick thrill in watching a movie this bad. For me, Batman & Robin rests comfortably in the space where legendary bad films can be adored for how irretrievably awful they are, alongside the likes of Plan 9 from Outer Space and The Room. This is a special class of bad movie \u2014 the kind that, with time, lets you laugh at its mistakes like a drunk old friend. ( Hence, the drinking games .) It lets you look back and appreciate how far you\u2019ve come, and even wish you could go back and see it all for the first time again. And after awhile, even the egregious has its charms.\nNothing like a good drinking game\nThere\u2019s some actual, honest-to-god good to this movie, trapped under all that flash and bad acting. For one, Uma Thurman is perfect as Poison Ivy. Not because she does justice to the comics character, because that\u2019s a mixed bag. Rather, in a movie that\u2019s so committed to Schumacher\u2019s over-the-top campy style, she vamps it up flawlessly. She commits, and she even looks like she\u2019s having some real fun in the role, which is a far cry from George Clooney\u2019s bored-and-boring take on Batman. For another \u2014 and you have to dig a bit here, so bear with me \u2014 there are kernels of a good, well-paced story here. There are heartfelt and genuinely affecting meditations on the nature of family, partnership, and life and death in this film, hinting that, had things not been so mucked up by Warner Bros' need to make this a family picture, Batman & Robin might have been something else entirely. Screenwriter Akiva Goldsman (who wrote A Beautiful Mind, by the way, so he\u2019s not a total hack despite this god-awful script) even had the good sense to lift  Mr. Freeze\u2019s backstory from Batman: The Animated Series , which comes close to Greek tragedy in its pathos.\nBut most importantly, it took this movie for studios to start thinking about what could make a superhero movie actually work. Batman & Robin is a watershed moment because,  while it did decently at the box office , it was a failure of legendary proportions among critics and fans. All the industry at large had to do after this cautionary outing was do better \u2014 and it did. The evidence is obvious enough in how Marvel and DC now hold the box office in the palm of their hands, but today's directors, who probably wouldn't touch his style with a 10-foot pole, are actually just much better at what Schumacher already did.\nThis is a big reason why we can have nice things, like good comics movies\nI'm not talking about what makes a superhero story work regardless of medium. I'm talking about how the movies themselves are presented on the screen. Little by little, comic book movie directors were forced into becoming better filmmakers, and we've seen the fruits of that over the past decade, all tinged with lessons learned from Joel Schumacher's colossal failure. The Dark Knight trilogy is the most obvious because it ran from the previous franchise as fast as it could for the sake of gritty realism, but the Spider-Man franchise reveled in its own camp sensibilities and it worked. Man of Steel didn\u2019t shy away from overwrought action cheesiness and anatomically-correct costumes,  and it mostly worked . And while DC and Warner Bros. have allegedly enacted a  \"No Jokes\" policy for their movies going forward (which means no puns in Batman v. Superman), Marvel has been having fun for years, most evident in the recent Guardians of the Galaxy,  which was every bit a comedy as an action movie .\nWhy does Batman & Robin hold up? Because at this point you could (and should) watch the movie as an unwitting parody of the good superhero movies that came after it. It\u2019s much easier to laugh at what\u2019s wrong when you think about what\u2019s right buried beneath the surface. As comics continue to dominate pop culture, so much of what we love owes this movie for helping studios think of superhero movies as films instead of just toy commercials. And you know what? Sometimes bad jokes are still funny. With all this in mind, it\u2019s a shame that its run on Netflix was so brief. Oh well. We can only hope it's not gone forever.\n(I was going to suggest renting it online, but... I'm not a monster. Wait for it to play on TNT or something.)\n","Title":"Batman & Robin is terrible, and here's why you should watch it immediately | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment","does-it-hold-up"]}