{"Main text":"Bill Gates signs off as guest editor of The Verge\nBy Bill Gates\nBill Gates was the The Verge's first-ever guest editor this past month, narrating episodes of The Big Future that illustrate the bets he and his wife Melinda are making with their foundation over the next 15 years. It has been an intense and rewarding collaboration: we've produced four independent features examining those bets, and now five episodes of the show. Above, we have Melinda Gates discussing how life for the poor will change in the next 15 years. Think of it as a bonus extra.\nAs the month comes to a close, it's time to let Bill himself onto our pages for a farewell.\nNilay Patel, Editor-in-chief\nDear Verge readers \u2014\nEvery year, Melinda and I write an Annual Letter in hopes of helping spark a broader a conversation with the global community about how we can help the poorest in the world. This year in our letter, we made a bet that the next 15 years are going to see the fastest progress for the world\u2019s poor than any time in history.\nMelinda and I see amazing progress when we travel \u2014 fewer people in poverty, millions of kids surviving past their 5th birthday, and more girls in Africa going to school than ever before. But it is the kind of progress that often goes unreported. Tragedies like natural disasters and terrorism dominate the headlines because they are shocking and immediate.  The progress that has saved millions of lives and built economies is slower. It\u2019s person by person. Family by family. Day by day.\nThe Verge has done a great job examining those deeper stories of progress. The journalists who have been working on this project have looked into the promise of mobile technology for the poorest countries. They have talked to the experts about how we can expect to see fewer people hungry and more people getting a quality education. They have challenged the assumptions in our letter by asking tough questions to people around the world who work on these issues every day. They have done impressive research and, most importantly, have engaged you in this critical work.\nAnd we need you to be engaged. We need people to raise their voices in support of those who cannot. We invite you to sign up here to be a Global Citizen . Learn about the amazing organizations working in the developing world. Volunteer. Donate. Use your voice to let your elected officials know that helping the poorest in the world is in our national interest.  It changed my life and it just might change yours.\nCan mobile banking revolutionize the lives of the poor?\nBill's first big bet is that mobile banking will change the lives of the poor, by making it easier to save money, spend small amounts, and participate in the economy. The outlook is good, but the challenges might be bigger than expected. Ben Popper investigates.\nCan online classrooms help the developing world catch up?\nThe second major Gates foundation bet is online learning \u2014 specifically, that improvements in mobile software will bring world-class education to millions on phones and tablets. It's coming, but it won't be as easy as it sounds. Adi Robertson takes a look.\n","Title":"Bill Gates signs off as guest editor of The Verge | The Verge","Tags":["microsoft","tech"]}