{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nThis Sunday the entertainment world will assemble for its biggest night of the year: the 86th annual Academy Awards. The Oscars will cap off an awards season that\u2019s been particularly kind to the science fiction genre, with the space adventure Gravity and Spike Jonze\u2019s futuristic drama Her both up for multiple Oscars \u2014 including the honor of best picture of 2013. It will also be a night full of potential for Netflix, which has already scored its first Emmy and Golden Globe wins, and could add an Oscar to the mantle with the documentary The Square.\nLong before the awards ceremonies and red-carpet broadcasts kick off, however, the preparation begins. Since 2002 the Oscars have taken place at a 3,400-seat venue on Hollywood Boulevard, originally known as the Kodak Theatre before that company\u2019s bankruptcy issues took hold. In 2012 Dolby acquired the naming rights, turning the theater into a showcase for its own audio and display technologies. It\u2019s since become a popular venue for Hollywood premieres, with films like The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug showing off the company's Atmos surround-sound format.\n1.2 billion people are expected to watch worldwide\nAs one would expect, Dolby takes particular pride in the audio portion of the Oscar telecast. This year it\u2019s estimated that 1.2 billion people around the world will watch the broadcast live in over 60 countries. Several of those, including the United States, will be receiving a 5.1 surround mix at home as well. Microphones spanning the front and rear of the Dolby Theatre record the sound of the crowd itself, which lead sound mixer Paul Sandweiss says allows him to recreate the experience of being in the theater at the center of the action. \"Not in the front row where everybody\u2019s behind me, and not in the back row where everybody\u2019s in front of me, but in the center,\" he says. \"That\u2019s where I\u2019d want to sit to watch a show when I go.\"\nOne new twist this year is that some of the film clips themselves will be played back live in the auditorium in 5.1 \u2014 so those surround microphones can pick up the echo of Sandra Bullock\u2019s panicked breathing in Gravity just like the Oscar attendees will hear it. The live orchestra, on the other hand, receives a slightly different treatment: the musicians are actually playing in a studio 10 blocks away at the Capitol Records building, with their audio piped over to the broadcast trucks for integration into the production and the broadcast. According to this year\u2019s Oscars sound team, it\u2019s all about clarity and control: the ability to get pristine audio of the orchestra without the compromises that recording them live in the theater would require.\nIt takes a 20-person crew three days to set up all the speakers, rigging, and cabling required for the Oscars, and this past Wednesday we visited the Dolby Theatre as final preparations were underway. Outside rain threatened as the red carpet was being assembled, while inside the theater the level of security rivaled that of a presidential address (those wearing credentials weren\u2019t even allowed to have their photos taken with badges displayed, lest someone duplicate them from a picture). As the first day of rehearsals started, we got to take a look at how the venue is transformed into the home of the biggest awards show of them all.\nPhotography by Thom Brekke (Dolby Laboratories)\nHint: Use the 's' and 'd' keys to navigate\nDays before the show, Hollywood Boulevard is closed off and the red carpet rolled out \u2014 covered in plastic, of course.\nThe 3,400-seat Dolby Theatre plays host to a number of premieres and other events during the year, but its annual highlight is The Oscars.\nCome Sunday night, regular humans will watch the nominees walk the red carpet from the bleachers.\nJust across the street from the 'Jimmy Kimmel Live' studios, this roll of red carpet waits to be unfurled.\nIt's just past 8AM, and construction is well underway.\nYes, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences apparently has its own set of rain gutters.\nWhite plastic covers the iconic red carpet. The best part? It's like walking on the world's biggest piece of bubble wrap.\nThe Grand Staircase at the Dolby Theatre. The names of former best picture winners line the columns on either side, with room for winners yet to come.\nThose lucky enough to receive statues will leave the stage and head down \"Winner's Walk\" to have their pictures taken and address the press.\nThe press shoot footage of the spectacle in front of the theater.\nHere in the broadcast trucks, telecast director Hamish Hamilton will work in tandem with lead sound mixer Paul Sandweiss to deliver a show that will be watched by an estimated 1.2 billion people around the world.\nTechnicians set up inside the Dolby Theatre. Just to the left of the boxes is the stage, where... well, you'll have to wait for Sunday night to find out about that.\n","Title":"Blockbuster production: an inside look at building the 2014 Oscars | The Verge","Tags":["culture","photo-essay","entertainment\",\"Story Streams\"","\"5229017"]}