{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nIn the first minutes of  Daredevil , a masked Matt Murdock fights down three men. It's not effortless. He\u2019s not an Asgardian or even Captain America. But each blow comes with the speed and precision of someone more than human. The fight is hard and intimate \u2014 bones crunch and blood splatters \u2014 in a way that takes a toll. It\u2019s the kind of spectacle you wince at. By the time he\u2019s punching his last victim, over and over again, you might think, \"God, he\u2019s never going to stop is he?\"\nFrom the very beginning, the show, Marvel\u2019s first Netflix series, is preoccupied with questions of morality. But more than anything else, it\u2019s a show about how far things need to go before they get better. Set in a bombed out New York, the city, we\u2019re told early and often, is in desperate need of saving. Corruption has crept its way into every corner of life \u2014 law enforcement, commerce, even basic things like housing \u2014 and how to root it out is at the show\u2019s core. But Daredevil\u2019s morality can\u2019t easily be defined as good versus evil. When your protagonist is a blind vigilante who beats down thugs as much for sport as for a higher purpose, you\u2019re talking about evil versus lesser evil, or about doing abject, unforgivable things for the greater good. In its uncompromising depiction of that struggle, Marvel manages to make this series great.\nThe series\u2019 conceit, in blurring the line between hero and villain, isn\u2019t especially novel. The mild-mannered professional by day, crimefighter by night trope invites immediate comparison to The Dark Knight trilogy and shows like Arrow. But Daredevil shines in the execution, which is as inspired as it is dark, darker than anything Marvel or DC has so far depicted onscreen.\nThis is a world where the Avengers failed us\nIt manages that first by being bloodier than anything audiences have seen out of the Big Two so far, verging on the edge of Sin City territory. This show is gruesome. The bloodletting is relentless here; at one point, a character slams his own head through a wall spike just to make a point. But what really sets this apart from Nolan\u2019s films and the rest of the Marvel Cinematic Universe is that Daredevil shows how superheroes fail us. The Avengers saved the world, but the New York they left behind is still scarred for it. Crime took root in the wreckage, and heroes like Iron Man are nowhere in sight. Matt Murdock is the kind of hero that environment now needs: the first street-level hero willing to get his hands dirty. And the blood he and those around him spill is a constant reminder of how morally compromised his part of the city has become. This is what the world is like with superheroes in it. This is how things go too far. It\u2019s as cruel as it is compelling, adding weight to the proceedings without leaning so much on older stories as to prevent the story from standing on its own.\nSome background. Daredevil follows Matt Murdock (Boardwalk Empire\u2019s Charlie Cox), a man born and raised in Hell\u2019s Kitchen watching his neighborhood crumble around him. The Sin City resemblance is no accident; the series draws from Frank Miller\u2019s run on the character in the 1980s and \u201890s, and it was Miller who effectively made gritty, morally gray superhero stories stick. His acclaimed 1993 miniseries  Daredevil: The Man Without Fear is the principal inspiration here, as we see Murdock\u2019s origin as well as his birth as an anti-hero. A childhood freak accident involving radioactive chemicals (ever the source of Marvel magic) destroyed his sight, but enhanced the rest of his senses to superhuman levels. He can hear, smell, taste, and feel what we can\u2019t, and his \"view\" of our world becomes that of a world on fire. Thus christened, Murdock becomes the city\u2019s protector, doing double duty as a lawyer and a masked vigilante as he fights to take down the criminal element plaguing New York.\nCharlie Cox plays a good man capable of doing terrible things\nAs Matt Murdock, Cox brings a quiet charm and Catholic guilt that makes him immediately sympathetic. The character simmers when he\u2019s onscreen, only boiling over when he lets rage consume him as the masked hero. This is a good man capable of doing terrible things, and he\u2019s good at what he does. He\u2019s joined by a stellar cast that all embody some moral struggle that exposes how broken New York has become. Elden Henson plays Murdock\u2019s best friend and legal partner Franklin \"Foggy\" Nelson, an essentially good lawyer still smarting from the pair turning down a lucrative position at a corrupt law firm. True Blood alum Deborah Ann Woll plays Karen Page, a victim of the show\u2019s core criminal plot whose past on the show is likely as checkered as her troubled past in the comics. Rosario Dawson plays Claire Temple, a night shift nurse who stitches Murdock up despite witnessing his penchant for violence. And Vondie Curtis-Hall plays Ben Urich, probably the most storied investigative journalist in all of Marvel, as he wrestles with how to help bring the city\u2019s darker influences down without getting himself or those he cares about killed.\nBut the real highlight here is Vincent D\u2019Onofrio\u2019s take on Wilson Fisk, the Kingpin of Crime. In the past, Fisk has been portrayed as a fearsome crime lord only posing as a legitimate businessman, serving as the arch-enemy of superheroes like Spider-Man, the Punisher, and especially Daredevil. Here, he\u2019s Murdock\u2019s twisted reflection. They want the same thing \u2014 that is, to make their city a better place. But, where Murdock wants to stamp out crime one punch at a time, Fisk wants to dismantle the underworld from the inside, even if that means dirtying his hands with drugs and human trafficking.\nWho really serves the greater good?\nWho\u2019s really serving the greater good? In its first five episodes, the show offers no easy answer outside of our knowledge that we are watching a show called Daredevil, and the titular character is supposed to be our hero. But D\u2019Onofrio makes Fisk charming in his way \u2014 in one early episode, we see him fumble awkwardly on a date with a woman he admires. And Fisk states outright he takes no pleasure in his criminal activity, while we can only wonder as to how much pleasure Murdock takes in ripping his enemies apart.\nWith so many new superhero shows on television, Daredevil successfully raises the bar. As Marvel\u2019s crop of TV projects have evolved from decent (Agents of SHIELD) to excellent (Agent Carter), Daredevil pushes the envelope by going down dark paths the Marvel Cinematic Universe hasn\u2019t gone down before. This isn\u2019t about aliens saving planets. It\u2019s about one man taking on mass murderers with his bare hands. Marvel and Netflix have three more solo series scheduled for the near future,  all leading up to The Defenders crossover miniseries . That this can be more compelling than what we\u2019ve seen in theaters bodes well for what Netflix has coming next.\nMarvel's Daredevil premieres on April 10th on Netflix.\n","Title":"Daredevil is the best (and bloodiest) show Marvel has made yet | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment","tv-reviews","comics"]}