{"Main text":"Nintendo DS and N64 games are finally coming to the Wii U ! Great news, right?\nWell. Kind of?\nLook, Super Mario 64 is one of the greatest video games of all time. It did for 3D gaming what The Wizard of Oz did for color cinema. It\u2019s important that it remain available on modern hardware, and it\u2019s absolutely worth $10 in a vacuum. But these truths aside, isn\u2019t the business model a little antiquated?\nNintendo president Satoru Iwata has, in the past, cited concerns over the plummeting perception of software value as a reason not to develop mobile games. This might be why Nintendo insists on drip-feeding Virtual Console ports at high individual prices, even when the games in question have been re-released for prior platforms; pretty much every N64 game of note is already available on the original Wii, for instance. It\u2019s absurd that we\u2019ll have to wait week-by-week for the privilege of building up another collection on the Wii U.\nNintendo should offer unlimited retro downloads for a subscription fee\nI don\u2019t have access to Nintendo\u2019s digital sales, of course, but I can\u2019t imagine Virtual Console games make up a huge portion of revenue. (If they did, you\u2019d think Nintendo would make a less superficial effort with the internet in general.) But, given that the company has proven itself to be open to new business ideas with its DeNA mobile gaming partnership , I think there\u2019s another way that the company should take a second step into the 2010s: adopt the Netflix model, and offer unlimited retro downloads for a subscription fee.\nHere are some movies you can watch right now on Netflix without causing the value of film as a medium to implode: Raging Bull. Fargo. Manhattan. Pulp Fiction. Chinatown. Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid. Amélie. Trainspotting. Apocalypse Now. Rocky. These are movies that a lot of people probably pay several dollars each for on iTunes (or, well, DVD) à la carte, yet their availability on Netflix doesn't hurt their classic status. Nintendo has by far the most valuable back catalog and intellectual property in gaming; even if it only made its own titles available and ignored third parties completely, it\u2019d have a vast library that a lot of people would be willing to pay monthly for.\nSure, some will pay the cost of a month of Netflix for Super Mario 64 this month. But what about next month? I can\u2019t imagine Donkey Kong 64 or Paper Mario drawing similar revenue, but they\u2019re exactly the kind of title people would dip into out of curiosity under a subscription model. In a world where EA is offering access to all but its newest current console games for just $30 a year , this doesn\u2019t seem like the hardest of calls.\nNintendo has an unbeatable yet under-utilized library. Putting old games on phones isn\u2019t the answer; putting them in the hands of more Nintendo fans is.\nFive stories to start your day\nClassic Nintendo DS and N64 games are coming to the Wii U\nThe Wii U Virtual Console is getting a lot better today \u2014 Nintendo will start releasing classic N64 and Nintendo DS games on its retro download service. It starts today with the launch of two games, Yoshi's Island DS and Super Mario 64, which will be available for $9.99 each.\nAirbnb expands into Cuba\nThe room-booking service will list more than 1,000 Cuban properties for American users beginning today, with more than 40 percent in the capital of Havana. The company says it aims to expand its offerings there over the coming months, though for now, only US travelers will be able to use the service, according to the AP.\nNikon's new mirrorless camera is the company's most appealing yet\nAlthough there are certainly stronger mirrorless offerings out there for enthusiasts from the likes of Fujifilm, Olympus, and Sony, the J5 might be worth a look if you prioritize speed, size, and simplicity in an interchangeable lens camera rather than pro-level image quality \u2014 not to mention affordability.\n","Title":"First Click: Nintendo could learn a lot from Netflix | The Verge","Tags":["gaming","culture","entertainment","first-click"]}