{"Main text":"Forget vinyl, producer Trevor Jackson is bringing back mini discs and reel-to-reel\nReel-to-reel, really\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nWho says the album is dead? Not Trevor Jackson. The London-based director, producer, and visual artist is set to release a new work that explores variations in the LP format. F O R M A T will be released as 12 tracks in 12 different formats \u2014 7-inch, 10-inch, and 12-inch vinyl, CD, mini CD, cassette, USB, mini disc, DAT, VHS, 8-track, and reel-to-reel \u2014 making it something of a physical timeline of the album. Record label and pressing plant  The Vinyl Factory , which boasts releases from the likes of Pet Shop Boys and Burial, will produce and distribute the album.\nF O R M A T will be released as 12 tracks in 12 different formats\nReleasing a single album as a dozen tracks in different formats is an ambitious undertaking, but for someone with Jackson's background, it makes sense. With a resumé that includes label-head of the groundbreaking, defunct  Output Recordings , an expansive catalog of experimental house and ambient music, and design projects like Soulwax's eye-buzzing  Any Minute Now cover , Jackson's just the guy we would expect to do this. The album itself will include a selection of previously unreleased tracks, remastered and re-edited specifically for F O R M A T.\nThe question is, does anyone have an 8-track player lying around, or a burning desire to listen to something on mini disc? Our guess is Jackson's futuristic, cerebral aesthetics will propel the, er, more frustrating album formats into something a little more stimulating. F O R M A T arrives next month, along with an album listening party at The Vinyl Factory in Soho where the limited edition tracks will be available to purchase. No word on price or the number of limited editions available, but digital and vinyl formats of the album will be available one month after its initial release. Guess it's safe to say reel-to-reel isn't making a comeback.\n","Title":"Forget vinyl, producer Trevor Jackson is bringing back mini discs and reel-to-reel | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}