{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nPress days for this year's Geneva Motor Show officially kick off tomorrow, March 3rd \u2014 but many of the announcements have already started to trickle out. By all appearances, it's going to be a hell of a show.\nHere's just a small taste of the insanity: Aston Martin will be unveiling its most outrageous production car ever, Lamborghini is showing an even hotter version of the blistering Aventador, and Mercedes-Benz appears to have gone full YOLO with a lemon-lime Geländewagen that's been tricked out with enough offroading hardware to survive the surface of Mars.\nSure, why not?\nAnyway, have a peek here at a few of the announcements ahead of press days \u2014 and get ready, because we'll be reporting from the show floor tomorrow and Wednesday.\nHint: Use the 's' and 'd' keys to navigate\nAudi R8. The next generation of Audi's supercar doesn't look much different than the model it replaces, but make no mistake \u2014 there's a thoroughly new car underneath. Most interesting is the bespoke R8 e-tron, an all-electric version that has greater capacity and range than the Tesla Model S.\nLamborghini Aventador LP750-4 Superveloce. Take the Aventador \u2014 already one of the most beautiful and outrageous production cars on the road today \u2014 add 50 horsepower, and remove over 100 pounds of fat. That's this.\nBugatti Veyron Grand Sport Vitesse La Finale. After a ten-year run, Bugatti is writing its legendary hypercar's final chapter with the appropriately named La Finale.\nBentley EXP 10 Speed 6. Bentley points to its EXP 10 Speed 6 as a new direction in styling for the luxury marque, and it's clearly more swoopy and svelte than anything the company currently offers. It's a concept car, but it hints at a possible new model line \u2014 a sports car that would fit alongside the Continental GT coupe rather than replace it.\nAston Martin Vulcan. There will only be 24 of these track-only beasts offered, featuring a V12 engine good for over 800 horsepower. It looks like nothing else Aston Martin has ever made.\nLexus LF-SA. Don't be fooled by the name: leaks suggest that the LF-SA has absolutely nothing to do with Lexus' LFA supercar. Instead, the LF-SA is a compact hatch that previews new styling elements for the brand.\nMercedes-Benz G 500 4x42. The 4x42 is designed to be the baddest-ass four-wheeler that Mercedes has ever offered, and judging from this picture, I see no reason to believe otherwise.\nNanoFlowCell Quant F. This is a follow-up to the Quant E shown at last year's Geneva show from NanoFlowCell, a Liechtenstein-based start-up that's working on flow battery drivetrains. It promises a 0-60 run in just 2.8 seconds, but the science behind the car is still under development \u2014 and the infrastructure to refuel it doesn't exist.\n","Title":"Here are some of the outrageous cars coming to this year's Geneva Motor Show | The Verge","Tags":["photo-essay","transportation\",\"Story Streams\"","\"7914268"]}