{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nWalt Disney Pictures has released the official synopsis for Avengers: Age of Ultron, next year's follow-up to The Avengers. The film opens on May 1, 2015.\nSomething to note in the following synopsis: while most characters are associated with their superhero names, Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver go by their birth names. Outside the films, both characters are stuck between the licensing rights of Disney and Fox, the latter of which currently has the film rights to X-Men. In the X-Men mythos, Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver are both mutants, the children of Magneto and two of the early Avengers recruits,  which explains how the characters appear in both movies, but are played by different actors .\nOf course, director Joss Whedon has used the characters' superhero names in press tours, so there's no need to fret, true believers. Hm, that's a Stan Lee phrase. Is that owned by Disney or Fox?\nExtra weird twist: Elizabeth Olsen and  Aaron Taylor-Johnson, who play the siblings in Age of Ultron, played the married couple at the center of this year's Godzilla.\nHere's the full synopsis:\nMarvel Studios presents \"Avengers: Age of Ultron,\" the epic follow-up to the biggest Super Hero movie of all time. When Tony Stark tries to jumpstart a dormant peacekeeping program, things go awry and Earth's Mightiest Heroes, including Iron Man, Captain America, Thor, The Incredible Hulk, Black Widow and Hawkeye, are put to the ultimate test as the fate of the planet hangs in the balance. As the villainous Ultron emerges, it is up to The Avengers to stop him from enacting his terrible plans, and soon uneasy alliances and unexpected action pave the way for an epic and unique global adventure.\nMarvel's \"Avengers: Age of Ultron\" stars Robert Downey Jr., who returns as Iron Man, along with Chris Evans as Captain America, Chris Hemsworth as Thor and Mark Ruffalo as The Hulk. Together with Scarlett Johansson as Black Widow and Jeremy Renner as Hawkeye, and with the additional support of Samuel L. Jackson as Nick Fury and Cobie Smulders as Agent Maria Hill, the team must reassemble to defeat James Spader as Ultron, a terrifying technological villain hell bent on human extinction. Along the way, they confront two mysterious and powerful newcomers, Wanda Maximoff, played by Elizabeth Olsen, and Pietro Maximoff, played by Aaron Taylor-Johnson, and meet an old friend in a new form when Paul Bettany becomes Vision.\n","Title":"Here's what happens in 'Avengers: Age of Ultron' according to Disney | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}