{"Main text":"Here's how you make the world's most expensive phone\nWhat if you could build a phone without worrying about the money?\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nVertu started life in the late 1990s as an indulgence for Nokia's designers. Led by Frank Nuovo , the group set out to explore what a phone could look and feel like if its design was unconstrained by budgetary concerns. What if you could use all the best materials and most expensive manufacturing processes, what sort of phone would you end up with? Given free reign to experiment within the then-resplendent Nokia, Vertu gradually evolved into its own division, with a name, logo, and brand identity that grew to be synonymous with overt demonstrations of wealth.\nLast year, Vertu gained its independence from Nokia after being purchased by a private equity group and quickly moved to Android as its platform of choice. It is now the most exclusive Android OEM around, offering handsets that cost at least four figures in whatever currency you care to buy them. Still, the way the company conducts its business hasn't really changed from the start. One single manufacturing facility on the outskirts of London handles every Vertu order, with the entire team of designers, engineers, and assemblers all working under the same roof.\nThe central tenet of Vertu design also remains unaltered. \"If you want to stand out, that's what it was built for,\" says Hutch Hutchinson, the company's chief of design, as he points to the $15,000 Signature handset. It's an unapologetic luxury item, one which turns its Nokia Series 40 software and anachronistic number pad into an asset, demonstrating through them that the owner of the phone doesn't need modern technology, he most likely has people doing those jobs for him. And yet, Vertu is also looking to the future with the introduction of two Android phones this year that usher in touchscreens, the Google Play Store, and many other modern smartphone amenities. The company is eager to appeal to women as well as men, and it's extending its range to accommodate a younger customer too.\nBeing a luxury mobile-phone brand presents some unique challenges for Vertu. Whereas the luxury industry \"moves at a very slow and considered pace,\" says the company's head of PR Jon Stanley, the exact opposite is true of smartphone manufacturing. By the time you're fully up to date with both components and software, there's already the next iteration waiting in the wings. Vertu will never actively compete in the specs race, but it recognizes the need to match the basic building blocks of its contemporary competition.\nHere's a look at what Vertu does with those components once it gets them inside its Church Crookham HQ.\nHint: Use the 's' and 'd' keys to navigate\nThe angular V logo actually came about before the Vertu name. It was originally a softer representation of two outstretched arms of communication \u2014 conveying the demonstrative fashion in which chief designer Frank Nuovo expressed himself \u2014 but was modified after people realized it looked too similar to the Mazda logo. The V got sharpened up and the word \u2018vertu\u2019 was chosen to match it, meaning \u2018objects of excellence\u2019 in latin.\nVertu\u2019s headquarters is split into two halves: to the right are all the administrative and design teams and to the left you\u2019ll find the manufacturing and shipping facilities. The company\u2019s production line is as transparent as can be \u2014 you can literally see workers assembling Signature handsets from the reception area.\nAside from the Vertu branding, which is abundant throughout the building, there are plenty of aspirational missives reminding those who work at the company about its unique position and business practices.\nEveryone inside the production area is outfitted with a lab coat and a set of anti-static heel straps. Vertu claims its cleanroom, where the sapphire glass is bonded to the displays, maintains the same standards for particle contamination as you\u2019d find inside an operating theater.\nUpstairs are the global procurement and admin staff, while the ground floor is occupied by phone assembly, testing, and packaging. Behind the pallets of boxed handsets is a vault secured by a 10-inch door composed of 15 different materials, which is backed up by a set of steel bars. Inside, an omnidirectional camera keeps a constant watch over the most precious materials that Vertu uses to adorn its phones.\nThere are no conveyor belts at Vertu. One worker is responsible for building each phone from start to finish, and each handset is engraved with his or her signature upon completion. That personal touch is appreciated by the customers, who will occasionally request a particular person to build their next phone, which in turn feeds into the job satisfaction and pride of the people doing the assembly.\nAs a luxury brand, Vertu serves an aspirational clientele and it seeks to reinforce a similar attitude among its workers.\nIf something can be done by hand instead of machine, Vertu opts to do it the human way.\nThere\u2019s a litany of small, custom-made components that go into every Vertu design and they\u2019re all subject to an extremely demanding quality check. Some of the most intricate elements are subject to a 15 percent rejection rate, owing to the precision required and the company\u2019s unwillingness to employ mass production methods.\nAlthough Vertu emphasizes the relationship between a phone and its builder, some tasks are done in a serialized fashion.\nPutting the finer touches on the internal frame of a Vertu Signature.\nVertu\u2019s factory feels more like an oversized workshop, with every employee having his own worktable and arsenal of tools.\nQualcomm is Vertu\u2019s main chip supplier for the new Constellation handset, whose innards look as tightly packed and integrated as any other smartphone\u2019s.\nOnce a phone is fully assembled, it\u2019s put through a series of machine tests to ensure everything functions correctly, which is then followed by a hands-on check to verify that the phone feels like it should as well.\nThe Par Excellence cabinets, located just to the side of the production area, contain perfect examples of each component and phone that Vertu manufactures. They\u2019re used as reference points to ensure that the company\u2019s maintaining the same level of quality throughout.\nThe smallest screw used by Vertu can almost get lost in the palm of your hand.\nCarousels filled with screws, antennas, physical key assemblies, and other small parts sit next to each workstation.\nTraining to become a Vertu technician can take anywhere from three months to a year, depending on the level of expertise, but you never have to do the job blind. Step-by-step instructions are provided by a terminal in front of you, which also automatically rotates the component carousel to the part needed to complete its orders.\nKnowing how to take a Vertu apart comes in handy on the rare occasions that an assembled unit doesn\u2019t pass through the quality checks.\nA final polish and inspection from a pair of white-gloved hands and your Vertu\u2019s ready to go. The company knows that \u201Cthe last thing we see is the first thing the customer sees,\u201D so this stage of production is closely scrutinized.\nA set of five leather-bound Constellation handsets, showing off the various color options and the pervasive V theme, which is extended by the cut of the matching leather cases. The retail value of this one box of phones is somewhere in the region of 25,000 euros.\nVertu\u2019s current range, from left to right: the 2008 Signature, which is still the company\u2019s most expensive and exclusive handset; the 2013 Vertu Ti, its first Android handset; and the most recent Constellation, which the company describes as \u201Cdeliberately more conformist.\u201D Pricing for each starts at 9,000 euro for the Signature, 7,900 euro for the Ti, and 4,900 for the Constellation.\nAlthough famed for its ostentatious designs like this snakeskin model in its concept store, Vertu considers them only a peripheral part of its business. Most of its work is done for customers of more restrained tastes who still want a device that \u201Clooks like it came from Mars.\u201D\nHutch Hutchinson, Vertu\u2019s design chief, says the company is making a conscious effort to appeal to a wider audience with this year\u2019s Constellation and Ti Android phones. While he still believes there\u2019s room for the outrageously sharp lines of the Series 40-powered Signature \u2014 for those who want to assert their opulence by merely presenting their phone \u2014 he feels Vertu also \u201Cneeded something that looked like it came from the moon rather than Mars.\u201D\nVertu\u2019s sales pitch hinges on three factors: unparalleled customer service and support, handcrafted devices, and exclusive materials. This particular handset is made of genuine alligator skin and zirconium.\nRenowned British sculptor Richard Wilson put together this futuristic cityscape from discarded Vertu parts. The street lights are made out of antennas, the skyscrapers are built out of metal frames, and the green paths are old bits of motherboard. There\u2019s also an art installation within the landscape that\u2019s made out of display panels that didn\u2019t quite make the cut. Vertu is looking into auctioning off the recycled art piece and giving the proceeds away to charity.\n","Title":"Here's how you make the world's most expensive phone | The Verge","Tags":["mobile","photo-essay","design","tech"]}