{"Main text":"7 Comments\nHow do you make a fitness tracker fashionable? The answer has, for the most part, evaded the industry. Most companies have kept their designs low-key with simple, single-color bands that don't draw attention to themselves. Fitbit's Flex is a great example of how to design an anonymous piece of tech well, but today the company is releasing a new line of accessories with fashion designer Tory Burch that it hopes will propel the tracker from functional to beautiful.\nBurch's accessories take the form of a brass pendant, a brass bracelet, and a pair of colorful silicone bands. All four are designed to house the Fitbit Flex, which pops out of the band it's sold with to facilitate the switch. They're strong designs; the brass pendant and bracelet in particular feature thick open fretwork that will be instantly recognizable to anyone familiar with Burch's back catalogue. They're not quite as shapely as the sketches Fitbit released when announcing the partnership earlier this year, but they're striking nonetheless.\nThe two silicone bracelets, available in a blue and pink, are adorned with similarly intricate geometric latticework and have a stylized cutout of Tory Burch's \"T\" logo for viewing the Flex's status lights. All of the accessories do a very good job of hiding the Fitbit Flex contained within, which will likely be a large part of the appeal for potential buyers. Given their brand cachet, the more striking of the four accessories are predictably expensive: the brass bracelet retails for $195 and the pendant for $175. Neither price includes a Fitbit Flex, which currently costs $99.95. The silicone bracelets are considerably more attainable, priced at $38 each.\nThe new accessories won't be for everyone \u2014 they're certainly not to my taste \u2014 but they're a good first step for Fitbit. Fashion is and should be polarizing, and Fitbit will need to partner with more designers to build out a  range of accessories if it wants to cater to everyone's style.\nHint: Use the 's' and 'd' keys to navigate\n","Title":"Hide your Fitbit in this new Tory Burch jewelry | The Verge","Tags":["design","tech"]}