{"Main text":"How the NFL tracks everything on the field but the ball\nFrom Chinese women\u2019s soccer to the American big leagues, real-time motion tracking is coming to sports\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nMost people know radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) chips as the security tags adorning clothes in stores, but this year they can also be found inside the uniforms of NFL players . As the Atlanta Falcons and Detroit Lions descended upon London this weekend, accompanying them were executives from Zebra Technologies, the company behind the RFID-based motion tracking system that the league is implementing this season. Zebra is in town to try and convince the operators of Wembley Stadium and the rest of the sports world to follow the example set by the NFL. I spoke with them about what makes their technology compelling and the future applications it can have for coaches, fans, and players of all sports.\nUsing a pair of location beacons embedded in each player\u2019s shoulder pads, the Zebra system is able to measure speed, acceleration, and distance covered in nearly real-time \u2014 there\u2019s just a half-second latency \u2014 and to within a margin of error of less than 6 inches. Referees and the first-down measuring sticks along the sideline are also equipped with the coin-sized RFID tags, leaving only the ball as an untracked entity on the field. (Zebra is working on a custom transmitter with wider weight distribution for 2015 that will make it possible to track the most critical object without affecting its flight or feel.) The company describes 2014 as a \"best effort\" year, with half the NFL stadiums being outfitted with its sensor networks and only occasional uses of the technology manifesting themselves in game broadcasts till now. But the vision for this technology is much grander than its present state.\nThe 2011 CBA already has provisions for location tracking on the field\nThe obvious first use for precise positional information of this sort is for coaches looking to analyze their players\u2019 performance. Did the wide receiver run the exact route he was supposed to? Did the cornerback keep a disciplined distance away? WIth built-in accelerometers and the redundancy of having two sensors per player, the tracking system knows which way a player is facing and how smoothly he is moving around the field (on top of how quickly). For the players, that will mean an extra layer of accountability, going beyond the already extensive set of statistics that are tracked on each play. There\u2019ll be no dissension from among their ranks, however, since they agreed to wear sensors for tracking of location and health metrics in their 2011 Collective Bargaining Agreement .\nThe NFL has been preparing to deploy what it calls Next Gen Stats for a long time. It signed up Zebra as its provider this summer after a year-long evaluation period that included other competing solutions. The league\u2019s focus is actually less on providing analytics for its member teams and more on augmenting the fan experience. In fact, in order to ensure fairness, the NFL isn\u2019t releasing the data it\u2019s gathering to the teams until all 31 stadiums have installed the sensor system necessary to track the RFID tags.\nEnhancing the fan experience is taking primacy over coach analytics\nThursday Night Football broadcasts on CBS have been the primary beneficiaries of the early use of Next Gen Stats, showing things like JJ Watt\u2019s incredible 20mph speed on a fumble return and the separation that a wide receiver achieves on a successful touchdown pass. Instead of the usual hastily scribbled doodles from the color commentator, viewers are now getting precise lines showing exactly how a player manages to get wide open and an accurate account of each juke, hurdle, or sprint. In a league obsessed with keeping track of all possible player measurables, it\u2019s surprising to find that most physical indicators are measured outside of game conditions, at events like the Scouting Combine each spring. Zebra combines such known metrics as a player\u2019s 40-yard dash time with the data it collects from the game to validate its findings.\nWhat\u2019s unique about this system, versus competing GPS-based alternatives, is the simplicity and ease of implementation. There\u2019s nothing particularly smart about each RFID tag, as it just beams out a message saying \"I\u2019m here\" 25 times per second that a network of 20 sensors around the bowl of a stadium triangulates to a precise location. Tags only have to be installed once per player per season and can last for years at a time. Their accelerometer data is only transferred when a certain threshold is crossed and high-fidelity location tracking is only enabled during live plays, making the whole thing rather efficient on bandwidth as well. Not that interference should be an issue, since the Zebra tags work in the 6.4GHz ultra wideband range where conventional wireless devices don't.\nNow: every move you make. Next: every breath you take\nThere\u2019s plenty of room for the information gathering to grow. Experiments are already underway to use the Bluetooth Low Energy radio built into the Zebra tags to expand their functionality. One of the future goals will be to figure out a suitable way to attach them to the player\u2019s skin so as to get heart rate and training intensity data as well. Before its NFL deal, Zebra successfully rolled out its system with the Shanghai Women\u2019s Soccer team in China, so it already has a good idea of how to adapt the technology to other sports.\nLike RFID tags themselves, Zebra Technologies is a company with a ubiquitous presence that\u2019s rarely felt. It does asset tracking and management for a number of auto companies and counts Walmart as one of its biggest clients. Zebra has a long history of tracking \"expensive, mobile, and mission-critical assets,\" and makes the point that that\u2019s exactly what NFL players are. Now it\u2019s just a matter of getting one of these beacons on the most mobile and mission-critical asset in the game: the ball itself.\n","Title":"How the NFL tracks everything on the field but the ball | The Verge","Tags":["front-page","culture","report","business","entertainment\",\"Additional Placements\"","\"sbnation"]}