{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nYou're going to see lots of curved things at CES 2015. TVs, all-in-one PCs, and plenty of desktop monitors. LG's one of the main pushers of curved displays, and tonight it's announcing one of those products before we head for Las Vegas. The 34-inch UltraWide desktop monitor has been designed for gamers and integrates support for AMD\u2019s FreeSync, which eliminates unsightly screen tearing that can happen when your monitor and graphics card get out of sync. And since it's got a 21:9 aspect ratio, you'll be able to see details on screen that are hidden from your multiplayer foes playing Battlefield 4 on 16:9 monitors.\nLG's not new to 21:9 displays, but it's describing the new curved UltraWide as one of its best yet, promising unrivaled color accuracy thanks to the UltraWide's IPS panel, ability to output 99 percent of the sRGB color gamut, and 178 degrees of pristine viewing angles. At the same time, it's launching a flat version of the monitor. The UM67 keeps the same FreeSync technology, presenting the games it's designed for in 21:9 resolutions\nYou can combine four of them and feel like you're on an episode of 24\nBut LG's actually not just aiming its curved monitor at gamers. Since you can stack two of them together, the company also thinks the UltraWide is a good fit for stock traders who are glued to market tickers all day long. It could probably do amazing things for your spreadsheets at the office. You can combine four of them and feel like you're on an episode of 24. Just look at the possibilities LG thinks up above. Sadly, we can't tell you how much putting together those rigs would cost; there's still no pricing or release date for the new UltraWides. But come next week, we should be seeing them in person. Hopefully then we'll be able to tell you whether it's worth reworking your home gaming setup.\n","Title":"LG announces a curved, 34-inch monitor that's tailor-made for gamers | The Verge","Tags":["gaming","tech","ces-2015"]}