{"Main text":"Magical school bus starts selling weed lunches\nWashington food truck offers legal sandwiches that get you high\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nA food truck claiming to be the world's first to (openly) sell marijuana-infused meals will start plying its wares next weekend in Washington state. Food company MagicalButter's \"Samich\" truck will be travelling the highways and backroads of the Pacific Northwest, delivering both munchies and the munchies to customers keen to purchase weed-imbued snacks.\nIn doing so, the former school bus turned food truck becomes one of the few centralized places people will be able to buy recreational cannabis in the state. Washington voted to legalize the sale of marijuana in 2012, but the state has delayed the process of issuing licences for growers and processors twice, meaning fixed retail storefronts offering recreational pot are yet to open.  According to Vox, the growers , and stores that will make up Washington's weed industry are ready to get the industry going, but the Samich truck looks like it'll get the jump on most of them.\nThe truck is apparently named for a tortured acronym \u2014 MagicalButter says SAMICH apparently stands for \"Savory Accessible Marijuana Infused Culinary Happiness\" \u2014 but it also describes much of its menu. Red-eyed customers will be able to choose between a set of sandwiches, including a Vietnamese-style pork creation, and something ominously referred to as \"Danks-giving.\"\nAlso on the menu is ganja-permeated truffle popcorn. The company promises that its food items are each packed with between 30 and 100 milligrams of THC, cannabis' main psychoactive element, an amount considered by medical marijuana site Medical Jane to constitute a daily dose. Those who do hand over the green for their weed-filled food will also earn a discount on  MagicalButter's MB2 botanical extractor . The device can pull nutrients from plants into butters, oils, and tinctures, allowing customers to make their own dope-flavored food. Assuming they're not too stoned to operate it.\nThe Samich truck will make its first appearance in the city of Everett on June 28th. It's open 11 AM until 7 PM local time, but expect the line to be longest at 4.20.\nHint: Use the 's' and 'd' keys to navigate\nGeryn Angel, MagicalButter's CEO,  says he hopes to have trucks in other cities such as San Diego, Tampa, and Toronto. He also wants to create an app that will let customers know when the truck is rolling nearby.\nThe Samich truck made its first appearance at the US Cannabis Cup in Denver on the 20th of April. In a twist of inappropriate irony, the drug-selling truck itself is a converted schoolbus.\nMagicalButter's grilled cheese sandwich comes with tomato soup and a sizeable hit of THC. The company makes its food by extracting elements from cannabis plants in its own MB2 botanical extractor.\nThe truck's signature \"Samich\" sandwich is built with nut butter, jelly, and banana. MagicalButter says its chefs offer four-star food \u2014 the jelly in the Samich is \"a trinity jam,\" made with blueberries, raspberries, pomegranates, and, of course, lashings of chronic.\nThe truck offers barbecue and pulled pork fillings for its sandwiches, in addition to a turkey and stuffing option served on cornbread. This latter concoction is known as the \"Danks-giving,\" a pun presumably dreamed up while high.\nPulling rectangular green cardboard masks on and climbing on top of a pink van seems like a cruel trick to play on potentially paranoid customers.\n","Title":"Magical school bus starts selling weed lunches | The Verge","Tags":["culture","photo-essay","us-world"]}