{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nMicrosoft has just unveiled a whole new category of device designed to showcase Windows 10. It's called the Surface Hub. As the next evolution of the company's  Perceptive Pixel project, Surface Hub features an 84-inch 4K display with support for multi-touch and pen input. A 55-inch option will also be available,  according to a press release . The massive screen also includes dual cameras, microphones, and a wide array of \"advanced sensors,\" Microsoft says, though it's not yet sharing full details on all that's inside Surface Hub. We're also left clueless as to how much it will cost.\nIt's a Windows 10 device, but obviously strays far from your typical desktop or tablet experience. Microsoft has customized the Windows interface for such a monstrous display, offering quick access to Skype video calls, a OneNote whiteboard for drawing and annotation, and a shortcut for connecting to another nearby Windows 10 device. Signature Windows features like Snap remain, however. And you can use just about any app on the big screen. Here's Microsoft's pitch:\nThe Surface Hub features state-of-the-art digital white boarding; instant remote conferencing; the ability for multiple people to share and edit content on the screen from a laptop, tablet or phone; and a trusted platform for large-screen apps. Available in two sizes \u2014 55-inch and 84-inch \u2014 the Surface Hub removes the current limitations of traditional conference room scenarios to empower teams to create their best work together.\nAll that screen real estate allows for some unique things; you can hold video conferences while scribbling on the whiteboard, for instance. (Microsoft seems to be aiming Surface Hub at businesses and conference rooms.) \"It will make your meetings productive and engaging,\" the company says. Skype powers those meetings, of course. Above all else, Microsoft wants Surface Hub to be its proof that Windows 10 can be intuitive and productive no matter what size you're seeing it at.\n","Title":"Microsoft announces 84-inch Surface Hub tailored for Windows 10 | The Verge","Tags":["microsoft","tech\",\"Story Streams\"","\"7630402"]}