{"Main text":"NASA suspends contact with Russia over Ukraine crisis\nWork on International Space Station will continue\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nCiting Russia\u2019s ongoing violations of Ukraine\u2019s sovereign and territorial integrity, NASA told its officials today that the agency is suspending all contact with Russian government representatives. In an internal NASA memorandum obtained by The Verge, the agency said that the suspension includes travel to Russia, teleconferences, and visits by Russian government officials to NASA facilities. NASA is even suspending the exchange of emails with Russian officials.\nOngoing International Space Station activities are exempt from this suspension, however, as are meetings with other countries held outside of Russia that include the participation of Russian officials. The directives come directly from Michael O'Brien, the agency associate administrator for International and Interagency Relations.\n\"NASA's goals aren't political,\" said a NASA scientist who spoke to The Verge on condition of anonymity. \"This is one of the first major actions I have heard of from the US government and it is to stop science and technology collaboration... You're telling me there is nothing better?\"\nEarlier in March, NASA's chief executive, Charles Bolden, told reporters that \"everything is normal in our relationship with Russia.\" But that relationship seems to have gone sour since then. Last week, Bolden used mounting tensions with Russia to blast Congress on its lack of space funding in a blog post, stating that the current reliance on Russian space missions by the US was unacceptable.\nHere is an excerpt of the memo:\nGiven Russia's ongoing violation of Ukraine¹s sovereignty and territorial integrity, until further notice, the U.S. Government has determined that all NASA contacts with Russian Government representatives are suspended, unless the activity has been specifically excepted. This suspension includes NASA travel to Russia and visits by Russian Government representatives to NASA facilities, bilateral meetings, email, and teleconferences or videoconferences. At the present time, only operational International Space Station activities have been excepted. In addition, multilateral meetings held outside of Russia that may include Russian participation are not precluded under the present guidance.\nUpdate April 2nd, 7:45PM: NASA has issued a statement confirming that it is halting \"the majority of its ongoing engagements with the Russian Federation,\" while ISS operation has been excepted. We've reproduced the statement below.\nGiven Russia's ongoing violation of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, NASA is suspending the majority of its ongoing engagements with the Russian Federation.  NASA and Roscosmos will, however, continue to work together to maintain safe and continuous operation of the International Space Station. NASA is laser focused on a plan to return human spaceflight launches to American soil, and end our reliance on Russia to get into space.  This has been a top priority of the Obama Administration\u2019s for the past five years, and had our plan been fully funded, we would have returned American human spaceflight launches \u2013 and the jobs they support \u2013 back to the United States next year.  With the reduced level of funding approved by Congress, we\u2019re now looking at launching from U.S. soil in 2017.  The choice here is between fully funding the plan to bring space launches back to America or continuing to send millions of dollars to the Russians.  It\u2019s that simple.  The Obama Administration chooses to invest in America \u2013 and we are hopeful that Congress will do the same.\n","Title":"NASA suspends contact with Russia over Ukraine crisis | The Verge","Tags":["breaking","science","us-world"]}