{"Main text":"9 Comments\nEach week's new trailers are starting to look more and more different as we head out of the summer. Forget Michael Bay's explosions \u2014 we're stepping toward October's horror films and this winter's award contenders. We've got a bit of all that below, along with some other fun films that are coming up ahead.\nThe Pyramid\nWasn't The Mummy great? Okay, this isn't really anything like that, but if you basically take everything that's potentially spooky about ancient Egypt and turn it into a horror film, you might have The Pyramid. It's a cool setting, no doubt, but that may not be enough to stand out in the already crowded field of found-footage horror films.\nWinter Sleep\nWinter Sleep won top prize at this year's Cannes Film Festival, and it's easy to see from this new trailer just how somber and captivating the whole affair is supposed to be. It's a long affair too, clocking in at over three hours to tell its story of class divide in Turkey. But if you're up for it, the acclaimed picture is headed to US theaters on December 19th.\nRosewater\nThis should be an interesting one: last year, Jon Stewart stepped away from The Daily Show for a few months to direct his first film, and on November 7th, we'll finally get to see it. Rosewater is based on the memoir of a journalist who was imprisoned in Iran for 118 days, and fans will certainly be eager to see the story through Stewart's eyes.\nHarmontown\nWhat do you do when you get fired from the job that made you famous? Harmontown follows Dan Harmon after he was kicked off of Community, the show he created and ran for four seasons. In case you don't think Harmon is a figure worth following around, just take a look at roster of incredible comedians willing to gush about him in this documentary \u2014 there's Jack Black, Ben Stiller, and Sarah Silverman, just to name a few. It'll be in theaters and on demand October 3rd.\nThe Connection\nJust about everyone loves a good crime story, and The Connection looks very much like it's going to be a good one. The film stars Jean Dujardin (who won the best acting Oscar for The Artist) as a magistrate trying to crack down on the mafia in 1970s France. The film looks super stylish and sharp, and you'll be able to see it in the US at some point next year, supposedly in April.\n","Title":"New trailers: 'The Pyramid,' 'Winter Sleep,' 'Rosewater,' 'Harmontown,' and 'The Connection' | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}