{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nThis is a good weekend for movies. Birdman , Dear White People, and The Tale of Princess Kaguya are all opening and are all worth your time, so choose wisely. As for what else you'll be spending your time watching? Below we've rounded up nine trailers from this week so you can see what's coming up ahead.\nThe Hunger Games \u2014 Mockingjay Part 1\nThis isn't quite a trailer but isn't quite a clip either. Either way, it's a moody look at Katniss' return to Return to District 12 in Mockingjay Part 1. As you'd expect, things are looking pretty bleak. The movie is in theaters November 21st.\nTop Five\nEveryone who saw Chris Rock's new film premiere at the  Toronto International Film Festival last month flipped out, to put it lightly, sparking a bidding war between studios that'll have it out in theaters this December. Written and directed by Rock, Top Five is about a comedy star trying to transition to being a serious actor, without much luck. It's produced by Jay Z, Kanye West, and Questlove, and, as though that wasn't enough talent, it costars a ton of incredible comedians.\nUnbroken\nAngelina Jolie's third film as director is Unbroken, which tells the story of Olympic runner Louis Zamperini, who was captured during World War II after floating for over a month at sea. It's definitely being set up as an inspirational film, and it's increasingly looking like a strong one. It's out this Christmas.\nFeast\nOh my god this looks adorable. Remember Disney's incredible short film Paperman? Its animation head is the director behind the upcoming short Feast. It'll be playing in front of Big Hero 6, so everyone out to see that when it's released on November 7th will get to see this too.\nPowers\nMicrosoft has already all-but given up on creating original programming for its game console, but Sony is just about to get started. Powers, coming this winter, is its first series for the PlayStation 4. It's a cop drama in a world where villains have superpowers and the heroes don't. It's trying to look super intense, but uh\u2026 we all remember how Heroes turned out.\nDying of the Light\nDying of the Light hits every single plot point that you'd expect a CIA thriller to hit, but it's worth checking out just for the names involved. For one, it stars Nicolas Cage. And on top of that, it's written and directed by Paul Schrader, who you may know as the writer of Taxi Driver, the co-writer of Raging Bull, or, infamously , as the director of The Canyons. It's out December 5th.\nFoxcatcher\nThis is supposed to be one of the best dramas of the year, and every trailer for Foxcatcher so far has made it clear why. The film looks deeply unsettling, and that's all aided by what's supposed to be an incredible performance by Steve Carell. It tells the true story of  Olympic Wrestling champion Mark Schultz and his relationship with the increasingly unstable John du Pont. It'll be in theaters November 14th.\nWhy Don't You Play in Hell?\nWhy Don't You Play in Hell? looks like an insane B-movie action\/comedy, and it may just be wild enough to pull it all off. The film is about a clash between two yakuza clans\u2026 and a filmmaking crew that wants to turn it all into a movie. It opens November 7th.\nIn the Heart of the Sea\nRon Howard's In the Heart of the Sea tells the story of the whaling ship that served as inspiration for Moby-Dick. Perhaps it should be no surprise, then, that the events aboard this ship turn fairly action packed. It'll be in theaters March 13th.\n","Title":"New trailers: 'The Hunger Games,' Chris Rock's 'Top Five,' and Disney's 'Feast' | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}