{"Main text":"New York State's governor puts weight behind HIV prevention pill\nCuomo's backing of Truvada could bring it into the light\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nNew York State governor Andrew Cuomo did something unexpected last Sunday: he announced that he was backing Truvada \u2014 the controversial HIV prevention pill \u2014 in an effort to drastically cut the rate of new infections in the state. The pill was officially endorsed by the CDC in May for use by any HIV negative person who may be at risk for infection (not just gay men who might be having sex with HIV positive partners) but this is the first time that a high-level elected official has recommended its use, reports The New York TImes .\nsix years to reduce the number of new infections from 3,000 to 750\nCurrently about 3,000 new HIV infections are reported in New York state each year, but Cuomo wants that number reduced to 750 by 2020. To do so, he has introduced a three-prong strategy. The first two parts are rather traditional, as they rely on performing more HIV tests, and getting more people with positive tests to see physicians. But it\u2019s the third part, the part that includes Truvada, that has the potential to cause a stir, because some people think it promotes lower rates of condom use. That statement, however, isn\u2019t supported by a recent scientific study that looked into the matter.\nMoreover, in terms of preventing HIV, Truvada\u2019s track record is pretty good. Recent reports state that it cuts infection rates by more than 90 percent, and people who take the drug every day are 99 percent protected from HIV. Furthermore, despite its $13,000-a-year price tag, the drug is covered by most insurers. So, its continued obscurity appears to have more to do with marketing than anything else. In truth, many people who are at risk for HIV still aren\u2019t aware of the drug\u2019s existence. And despite the CDC\u2019s recent backing, its manufacturer, Gilead, has yet to market the drug for HIV prevention (Truvada is also used as part of a post HIV-exposure regimen).\n99 percent protected from HIV infection\nThis is why Cuomo\u2019s announcement is so important. By backing the drug formally, and encouraging physicians to get the word out, he might actually bring it into the light and curb HIV infection rates. Of course, the announcement probably isn\u2019t just about reducing infections. The pronouncement, which took place during Pride Weekend, is likely also an effort to win votes from members of the LGBTQ community. But when The Times' Josh Barro asked a top administration official about Cuomo\u2019s decision to back the drug, the official answered in a surprisingly insightful \u2014 yet anonymous \u2014 manner about the issues at hand. \"Some people use condoms, some people don\u2019t,\" the official told Barro. \"You can\u2019t offer condoms to people who don\u2019t want them.\"\nimproved access to something people might actually use\nThat shouldn\u2019t be seen as a sign that New York is abandoning its pro-condom strategy in favor of Truvada, however, since state guidelines make it clear that people who take the drug should still use condoms. But given the recent decline in condom use among teens of all sexual orientations, it\u2019s likely that people will chose to take Truvada following Cuomo\u2019s endorsement and who currently don't use condoms will continue to expose themselves to other STIs. So, the difference here is that although they might still become infected with treatable STIs, such as gonorrhea or chlamydia, they will have improved access to an effective, alternative form of HIV protection \u2014 one that they might actually use.\nBeside the Truvada endorsement, the state is also set to start enforcing a 2010 law that requires doctors to regularly offer HIV testing to patients between the ages of 13 and 65. And the state recently repealed a law that asked doctors and nurses to obtain written consent from patients before performing HIV tests, because the requirement acted as a barrier to testing .\nYet, as The Times points out, the most notable aspect of the state's rejuvenated approach to combating HIV isn't Truvada, but the combined economics of the strategies involved. None of these methods should lead to increased spending because they don't include new medical breakthroughs. In fact, the state will probably end up saving money if everything goes as planned, because every prevented HIV case saves about $400,000 in medical costs.\n","Title":"New York State's governor puts weight behind HIV prevention pill | The Verge","Tags":["science","us-world"]}