{"Main text":"This week's best trailers range from huge epics to tiny productions, but they all look pretty great in one way or another. Head down below to see trailers for a number of new things to watch this November and beyond.\nAvengers: Age of Ultron\nThat's right: there's already a new trailer for Age of Ultron, just a week after the first premiered. This is the same basic trailer, but up front we get a long look at a scene that has all of the Avengers hanging out and goofing around on their downtime. It's pure Joss Whedon goodness, for those who are into that sort of thing. The film is coming out on May 1st.\nThe Hunger Games: Mockingjay Part 1\nIt's almost here. There's just under a month to go before the first part of Mockingjay enters theaters, and one final trailer for it was released this week to hold everyone over: there aren't a lot of spoilers here \u2014 but there are a lot of explosions. It's in theaters November 21st.\nMarco Polo\nAfter House of Cards, it'd be foolish not to take a good look at any other big shows Netflix has in the pipeline, the next of which is Marco Polo. The series focuses on the famous explorer, and it looks like Netflix has gone all out to make its presentation of 13th-century China appear absolutely huge. It comes to Netflix on December 12th.\nEx Machina\nPay attention: Ex Machina already looks like it could be one of next year's best sci-fi films. It's the first movie directed by Alex Garland, but you're probably familiar with his writing \u2014 he's the screenwriter behind 28 Days Later and Sunshine, among quite a few other successful films. Ex Machina is about two men testing the intelligence of an AI, who appears to have developed a sense of sexuality. It'll be in theaters next April.\nA Girl Walks Home Alone At Night\nHere's a trailer that you have to watch. A Girl Walks Home Alone At Night is a vampire western set in Iran, and it looks pulpy and cool in all the right ways. It got good reviews out of Sundance earlier this year, and it'll finally be released November 21st.\nBanksy Does New York\nIt's pretty notable any time that Banksy produces even a single new piece of street art, so when he announced plans to do something in New York every day for an entire month last year, it was a huge deal for his fans. HBO's new documentary catalogs the entire month of art in what it's calling a \"user-generated\" film, pulling out tweets, Instagrams, and YouTube clips to tell Banksy's story. It'll debut on HBO tonight.\nComedians in Cars Getting Coffee\nJerry Seinfeld's ridiculously straightforward show continues to be one of our favorite things that he's done in years, and it's coming back soon for another season. You'll be able to catch it on Crackle starting November 6th.\n12 Monkeys\nTerry Gilliam's sci-fi classic 12 Monkeys is being reborn as a TV show for Syfy, where it'll premiere on January 16th. Its latest trailer provides one of the best looks that we've gotten at it yet, though it doesn't give us any more confidence that the show will turn out to be anywhere near as good as the film.\nLate Phases\nI don't even know where to start on Late Phases. It's about a blind war veteran who has to deal with a werewolf attack and buys silver shotgun shells to defend himself. If that sounds ridiculous enough for you, please click play. If not, you may continue scrolling. It's in theaters November 21st.\n","Title":"New trailers: 'Avengers: Age of Ultron,' 'Hunger Games: Mockingjay,' Netflix's 'Marco Polo,' and more | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}