{"Main text":"Maybe it's true every week, but there really were some great trailers that came out this week. Head below for 15 of the best, with a good mix of comedy, drama, action, superhero, and documentary throughout.\nSpectre\nThis is how you make a trailer. The first look at James Bond's next adventure, Spectre, is moody, suspenseful, and gorgeous without giving anything away. Basically, it's the perfect way to get us excited. Spectre comes out November 6th.\nFantastic Four\nIf you were concerned about the Fantastic Four movie, you may want to stop worrying. A new international trailer for the film was released today that makes it look like a suspenseful and dark adventure that'll make you happy to forget about the last time someone tried to make a Fantastic Four movie. It comes out August 7th.\nMad Max: Fury Road\nThis trailer is really good. Like, really, really good. There's wild action, bizarre environments, and not a second of footage that isn't totally, unreasonably, overwhelmingly stylish. The film will be in theaters next month, on May 15th.\nStraight Outta Compton\nIt's hard not to be interested in how Straight Outta Compton turns out. The film tells the origins of NWA, and this new trailer really gets into what the famous group was going up against culturally back in the \u201980s. It'll be in theaters this August.\nDaredevil\nWe're just a week away from Daredevil on Netflix, and its trailers are only getting better. If you can wait, wait. If not: check out some of the action we'll be in for when the series debuts.\nFear the Walking Dead\nThere's not a lot to look at here, but I don't think Walking Dead fans will mind: AMC's spinoff series is coming \u2014 and soon. This first teaser says we'll see it this summer.\nPoltergeist\nThe latest trailer for the Poltergeist remake is just a ton of spooky stuff back to back. If you're wondering how the series looks in director Sam Raimi's hands, this may be your answer. It'll be out May 22nd.\nSouthpaw\nGet ready for another bout of intense Jake Gyllenhaal acting. Southpaw has Gyllenhaal playing a messed up boxer who loses his job and his daughter and has to go through a weird inspirational journey to win it back. It looks potentially melodramatic and contrived, but Gyllenhaal may make it an interesting watch anyway. It'll be in theaters July 31st.\nChef's Table\nDo not watch this trailer if you're hungry or even could be hungry in the near future. Netflix's new documentary series looks at some of the best restaurants and chefs in the world and shows them in absolutely beautiful footage. The show comes from the director of Jiro Dreams of Sushi, so it should be good. It comes out April 26th.\nBlunt Talk\nBlunt Talk is like The Newsroom if its lead anchor was coked out, drunk, and played by Patrick Stewart \u2014 aka this might be a winner? Seth MacFarlane executive produces the show, which is coming to Starz this summer.\nSpy\nMelissa McCarthy and Paul Feig have continued to team up for some pretty popular comedies, and their latest, Spy, seems to bring all the same touches. Plus, it's got Jason Statham playing a ridiculous secret agent, which is always great. It's in theaters June 5th.\nMasterminds\nThe director behind Napoleon Dynamite is back with a new comedy starring Zach Galifianakis, Kristen Wiig, Owen Wilson, and Jason Sudeikis. The film revolves around some hapless thieves, who you'd hope would be pretty funny given the talent involved. It comes out this summer.\nThe D Train\nAfter premiering at Sundance, The D Train heads to theaters next month, on May 8th. The film has Jack Black playing a sad family man who travels to LA to get a beautiful and semi-famous old acquaintance to attend the high school reunion he's putting together. Crazy situations appear to follow.\nThe Connection\nThere's not much more to say than that The Connection looks like a beautiful and lively crime tale \u2014 this trailer definitely has me sold. As the title suggests, it's about the French Connection and drug smuggling. The film will be out May 15th.\nAmy\nThe director of Senna has put together what looks like it could be a beautiful and heartbreaking documentary about Amy Winehouse, the incredible soul artist who, in 2011, died at age 27. The film is coming this summer.\n","Title":"New trailers: Spectre, Fantastic Four, Poltergeist, and more | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}