{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nThis week is all about some big names finally coming back: Terminator, Bond, and Saul Goodman. But there's plenty of small stuff too, some with great comedians and others with some strange sci-fi and fantasy. Head below to check out nine of this week's best trailers (with some clips and brief teases thrown in).\nTerminator Genisys\nThe first trailer for Terminator Genisys goes totally, irrevocably off the rails, but you kind of have to respect it for that. This fifth Terminator film takes place in an alternate timeline that basically reimagines and mashes up the events of the series' first two films. It may be playing off of nostalgia, but that's still kind of awesome. It comes out July 1st.\nSpectre\nThis may not be much of a trailer, but let's take what we can get. The 24th James Bond film finally has a name, and it has a short video teaser to go along with it. There isn't any footage yet, but that's for good reason: the movie doesn't actually start filming until later this year. It's supposed to come out on November 6th. You can go here to see everything we know about the new movie .\nBetter Call Saul\nYeah, we'll watch any clip that the creators of Better Call Saul want to show us, but this one is particularly great: this could just show how Saul and his soon-to-be associate Mike first met. As you might expect, it isn't pretty.\nTop Five\nChris Rock's latest movie seems to be winning over everyone who sees it, and its latest trailer \u2014 a far more inappropriate one \u2014 gives a strong impression of why that might be. The film has Rock playing an actor who's working to revitalize his career, and it gives a ton of great comedians, Rock included, space to do what they do best. It comes out next Friday.\nDa Sweet Blood of Jesus\nThings get kind of crazy when you give Spike Lee $1.4 million on Kickstarter to make a movie. Da Sweet Blood of Jesus is supposed to be a love story about a man who becomes cursed and consumed with a thirst for blood. As is often the case, it's a film by Lee that's hard to describe, so you should probably just got ahead and watch the trailer.  It'll be out on February 13th.\nWhile We're Young\nWhile We're Young is the latest film from Noah Baumbach, a director whose understated stories often deal with 20-somethings and youth, as in 2012's Frances Ha. His new movie is about a middle-aged couple, played by Ben Stiller and Naomi Watts, whose lives are shaken up when they meet a younger and more energetic couple, played by Adam Driver and Amanda Seyfried. It's a pretty great crew of people to throw together, and you'll be able to watch the results next year on March 27th.\nVice\nSomehow, there are two insane trailers this week about robots trying to kill people. I honestly have no idea what's happening for like half of this trailer, but the movie involves Bruce Willis running some crazy, sci-fi resort that lets people live out their fantasies with robots, until one eventually escapes and starts trying to kill him. It'll be out on January 16th.\nBlack Mirror\nHere's something for Black Mirror fans to get excited about. After almost two years, the dark sci-fi series is returning with a Christmas special involving Jon Hamm. It'll run in the UK on December 16th and on Christmas in the US \u2014 leaving plenty of time to catch up on the series if you haven't seen it yet (and you probably should).\nWhat We Do in the Shadows\nFlight of the Conchords' Jemaine Clement is half of the writing and directing team behind What We Do in the Shadows, a strange new mockumentary about modern vampires. Early reviews of the film have been pretty positive, and anyone who's already a fan of Clement (or co-writer\/director Taika Waititi, of Eagle vs Shark) ought to be interested here. It'll be out on February 13th.\n","Title":"New trailers: Terminator, 007, Better Call Saul, and more | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}