{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nWe're quickly moving past Oscar-season movies and back toward plenty of action and comedy. If you want to know what's coming up ahead, we've rounded up the best of this week's new trailers \u2014 a number of which come from some pretty big names. Since we didn't run a trailer roundup last Friday, a few of last week's biggest titles are also included. You can see all 15 below.\nAvengers: Age of Ultron\nHere it is, the trailer that spawned a thousand analysis pieces. Age of Ultron's second preview was released this week, and there are more nerdy tidbits than ever to dig into. There will be plenty to read about it before everything is revealed on May 1st.\nAnt-Man\nAfter some bumpy moments during its production, Ant-Man is finally in the editing room and ready to let us take a look at it. It's hard to say that this is the most exciting Marvel movie trailer that we've ever seen, but we're willing to give it some time \u2014 there's Age of Ultron to look forward to first, anyway. Ant-Man will be out July 17th.\nHouse of Cards\nFrank Underwood may be where he wants to be, but he still has some serious messes to clean up. Netflix debuted the trailer for House of Cards' third season over the weekend, just over a month ahead of its February 27th premiere. Naturally, you'll be able to see it all that very day if you can find the time.\nBetter Call Saul\nThe closer AMC gets to debuting Better Call Saul, the more it's starting to show of it. This might be the longest trailer yet, and it actually shows us a bit of what Bob Odenkirk's character is like way back in the day. The show premieres on February 8th.\nThe Peanuts Movie\nWondering how the Peanuts gang translates to a 3D movie? This second trailer gives a little bit more of a classic look at Snoopy and Woodstock, and it's hard not to find it all kind of charming. It'll be out much later this year, on November 6th.\niZombie\nThis is literally the most ridiculous TV show you may ever see. If you only watch one trailer this week, make it this one. iZombie, which is a real show, will premiere on CW on March 17th.\nThe Last Man on Earth\nEvery name involved with this show is a reason to check it out: Will Forte writes, stars, and produces, and Chris Miller and Phil Lord \u2014 the duo behind The Lego Movie and the Jump Street films \u2014 are on board as directors for the pilot. There will apparently be some other actors, but there's no word on whether they'll exist in the present or in flashbacks to the past. The series premieres March 1st.\nGirlhood\nThis isn't a Boyhood spinoff. Director Céline Sciamma makes quiet French films about kids, and her latest is Girlhood, which looks to be just as beautiful. It's about a girl trying to escape from a bad family and school situation who ends up finding a new set of troubles in the process. It's supposed to come out in a limited release January 30th.\nSpy\nMelissa McCarthy is teaming up with director Paul Feig yet again. As a reminder, the duo also worked together for Bridesmaids and The Heat, so their latest, Spy, is definitely going to have some fans looking out for it. Consider this a taste of what the new Ghostbusters might look like. It'll be out May 22nd.\nSisters\nThere's not much to look at yet, but any comedy that pairs Tina Fey and Amy Poehler together is bound to be a winner. The film's release is still a long way away \u2014 it's targeted for next Christmas.\nFifty Shades of Grey\nJoke all you want, the trailers for Fifty Shades of Grey are kind of amazing in all sorts of good and bad ways. A lot of people are going to see this movie, so get ready. It's out on Valentine's Day.\nChappie\nThe latest trailer for Chappie shows what it's like for a robot that's just developed artificial intelligence. The film is the latest from District 9 director Neill Blomkamp, and while his last movie, Elysium, wasn't quite as well received, we're definitely looking forward to seeing more of this one. It'll be out on March 6th.\nRun All Night\nThere's not much you need to know here other than that Run All Night stars Liam Neeson as a dude with a gun who has to protect his child. Sound good? Cool. Check it out if you're into that sort of thing. The movie will be out April 17th.\nUnfriended\nThere's a lot to unpack here, but needless to say, Unfriended looks all kinds of crazy. The film takes place largely within a group video chat that someone hacks into to begin threatening a bunch of teens over the way they shamed a friend who later killed herself. It's really intense. It'll be out April 17th.\nThe Expanse\nSyfy released a first look at its upcoming miniseries The Expanse this week, beginning to introduce its extraterrestrial world. The show, which is based on a book series of the same name, is a bit of a sci-fi detective story about the search for a woman who's gone missing somewhere in the solar system. It'll run later this year.\n","Title":"New trailers: House of Cards, Avengers: Age of Ultron, The Peanuts Movie, and more | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}