{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nThis is kind of a huge week for movies by the power of The Hunger Games alone. Even though Mockingjay Part 1 may not be the series' strongest film , there's little chance that fans aren't going to storm theaters now that it's out. We're also about to see the release of the Alan Turing biopic, which is a pretty cool thriller about one of Britain's most important mathematicians.\nThere's a lot more to come, though. Comedies, fantasies, documentaries, all big stuff appearing in the next few months. Head below to take an early look and see 10 of this week's best new trailers.\nMarco Polo\nNetflix's next original series is downright huge in scope. It's an adventure story telling the tale of Marco Polo, and Netflix is making it clear that this show is on the road to become a complete epic. It debuts December 12th.\nPortlandia\nPortlandia is about to return for its fifth season, and from the looks of its first trailer, it's going to be as strange and eccentric as ever. It'll return to IFC on January 8th.\nPeanuts\nYou may not recognize the art style, but you definitely know these characters and this music. The Peanuts gang is coming back \u2014 in 3D \u2014 sometime next year, and this is our first long look at it.\nPitch Perfect 2\nI don't get it. I really don't. But Chris Plante does, so go here and let him explain the raw emotions he feels when watching this.\nCinderella\nDisney is bringing one of its classics to life with an adaptation starring Lily James as Cinderella and Cate Blanchett as her stepmother. You already know the story, but this trailer should give you a sense of whether Disney can recreate its magic in the real world.\nProject Almanac\nProject Almanac asks the age-old question: what would happen if teens discovered how to time travel? It's a found-footage thriller that's certainly trying to have some fun with its premise. It'll be in theaters January 30th.\nJingle Bell Rocks!\nThis is what happens when people who are deeply serious about making a good playlist are also huge fans of Christmas music. Jingle Bell Rocks! is a documentary about the Christmas songs you haven't heard and some of Christmas music's biggest fans. It's a weird part of the holidays you probably haven't seen before, and you'll be able to watch the full thing in theaters next month.\nThe Kingdom of Dreams and Madness\nStudio Ghibli is one of the most important names in animation, if not filmmaking as a whole, and this documentary lets you step inside of it and watch what makes it tick. Focusing on Hayao Miyazaki, Isao Takahata, and Toshio Suzuki, the film follows the studio as it tries to wrap up two of its recent films, The Wind Rises and The Tale of The Princess Kaguya . It's planned for a US release soon.\nBetter Call Saul\nAMC's Breaking Bad spinoff finally got a release date this week: February 8th, with the series proceeding every Monday thereafter. The network also released a new teaser for the show, and while it doesn't reveal much, it certainly makes you think that Saul should be as sleazy as ever.\nTelltale's Game of Thrones\nOkay, this isn't a movie or TV trailer \u2014 this is for Telltale's video game spinoff of HBO's Game of Thrones, but  that should be reason enough for you to check it out . Telltale is the studio behind the incredible Walking Dead series of games, and on top of that, this new series is actually going to build off the plot of HBO's TV show. Tyrion Lannister even turns up with Peter Dinklage as his voice actor. There's no release date yet, but it's supposed to come out soon.\n","Title":"New trailers: 'Better Call Saul,' 'Peanuts,' Netflix's 'Marco Polo,' and more | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}