{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nBetween Avengers and Halo, this was a huge week for trailers \u2014 though we can't blame you if you missed everything else in all the sci-fi and comic-book commotion. We've rounded up eight of this week's best trailers below so you can see everything that's coming up all in one place.\nAvengers: Age of Ultron\nThe first trailer for Age of Ultron leaked Wednesday night, but rather than making fans wait for a high-quality copy next week, Marvel just went ahead and released it. And you can't blame it: the leaked version was enough to get us excited, but the full version is a whole other story. Needless to say, we're looking forward to May 1st.\nHalo Nightfall\nIt's been a long time coming, but we're finally seeing a live-action Halo. Now, we just have to see if Nightfall is any good. The first full-length trailer for the series debuted this week, and while we can't say that it inspires total confidence, we're still intrigued enough to want want more. You'll be able to watch the first episode on November 11th.\nJudge Dredd: Superfiend\nFor some reason, producer Adi Shankar is continuing the story of the 2012 Dredd film with an animated web series that is totally unofficial (as in, he didn't get the rights for it). But for how strange the situation is, the cartoon looks, well, kind of awesome. It debuts Monday.\nInsidious: Chapter 3\nThe second Insidious was a bit of a let down for us last year, but it still dominated at the box office \u2014 and that means we're getting a sequel barely a year and a half later. The third film is directed by Saw series producer Leigh Whannell, so it ought to be pretty scary one way or another. The big question is: can it match the suspense of the original? It'll be out next May.\nThe Gambler\nMark Wahlberg plays a dude who has cool conversations with John Goodman in The Gambler, which just debuted its first trailer this week. The film has Wahlberg's character betting huge sums of money and attempting to outsmart various gangsters, though none of that is really made clear here. Still, it's based on the quite successful 1974 film of the same name, so it may be worth looking out for. It'll be in theaters around the end of the year.\nDrumline: A New Beat\nDrumline was a big hit when it came out, but that was 12 years ago. After all that time, Nick Cannon is now bringing it back for a sequel. The cast is pretty different, but with how much people love the original, it's easy to imagine that a good number of fans will tune in anyway. The movie is headed straight to VH1, and it premieres Monday night.\nMagician: The Astonishing Life and Work of Orson Welles\nIf you've only ever seen Citizen Kane, it might not be clear to you just how huge of an influence Orson Welles has had on filmmaking, but the documentary Magician should be able to bring you up to speed. It sorts through Welles' old interviews and speaks with directors including Steven Spielberg and Richard Linklater about what a significant impact he's had. Even in the trailer above, it's hard not to be impressed by what you're seeing.\n2001: A Space Odyssey\nStanley Kubrick's seminal sci-fi film is well over 40 years old, and it's now being restored for a special release in the UK. Ahead of that, Warner Bros. and the British Film Institute put together a new trailer for 2001 that'll remind you just how stunning this movie is in case, somehow, you forgot.\n","Title":"New trailers: 'Avengers: Age of Ultron,' 'Halo Nightfall,' 'Judge Dredd: Superfiend,' and more | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}