{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nSome of the biggest movies of summer and some of the biggest TV shows of spring put out trailers this week, so there's plenty to watch. Aside from the big names \u2014 like Mission: Impossible and J.K. Rowling's The Casual Vacancy \u2014 there's also some nice surprises: like Arnold Schwarzenegger in the tense zombie thriller Maggie. You can watch all 10 of this week's best below.\nMission: Impossible Rogue Nation\nThe new Mission: Impossible is shaping up to be one of the biggest action films of the summer, and this first trailer sells it as exactly that. Get ready for two-and-a-half minutes of near-constant combat and chaos. It'll be in theaters July 31st.\nEntourage\nFans are pumped. Everyone else is making fun of it. Basically, things are the same as ever for Entourage, but that's no reason to complain. The latest trailer for the show's movie continuation is packed with people and problems. It'll be in theaters June 5th\nSilicon Valley\nThe latest trailer for Silicon Valley's second season is all about competition and destruction. Now that the crew is having some success, there appears to be even more of an effort to take them down \u2014 and no one seems to be handling it well. The new season starts April 12th.\nMaggie\nMaggie is a totally different kind of zombie film. Rather than fighting off hordes of the undead in an attempt at survival, Maggie has its lead character, played by Arnold Schwarzenegger, trying to protect his daughter as she's slowly overcome with the dangerous virus. It'll be in theaters and on-demand starting May 8th.\nThe Casual Vacancy\nJ.K. Rowling's The Casual Vacancy is coming to HBO as a three-part miniseries next month, and this new trailer is the first to give a really good idea of what to expect from it. Unlike earlier previews of the show, this one really makes Vacancy's strange, small town look alive and worth exploring. HBO will start airing it April 29th.\nDerek\nDerek is ending with one final special \u2014 much like how Ricky Gervais' other series have wrapped up. A trailer for the special came out this week, and you'll be able to watch it on Netflix starting April 3rd.\nDope\nDope was a big hit at Sundance this year, and its latest trailer shows why: this is a film with a ton of energy and personality. It'll be in theaters June 19th.\nGood Kill\nEthan Hawke stars as a drone pilot fighting the Taliban in Good Kill. It's hard to tell how well the film handles its difficult subject matter, but it's interesting to see it try: the film is very much about a character's struggles with killing people from half a world away \u2014 including the civilians who get caught up in some strikes. It'll be in theaters and on-demand in the US starting May 15th.\nSlow West\nI'll watch anything with Michael Fassbender in it. Slow West is, as you've probably gathered, a western. It's about two men traveling together as they deal with the pursuit of an outlaw. It got good reviews out of Sundance, and it's now about to come out. It'll be on DirecTV starting April 16th and then head into theaters and on-demand starting May 15th.\nTangerines\nTangerines was one of this year's nominees for best foreign language film at the Oscars. It ultimately didn't win out, but it's still supposed to be a great movie. It's about farmers living amid conflict in Georgia who take in two injured soldiers \u2014 one from either side of the conflict. It'll start playing in select US theaters starting April 17th.\n","Title":"New trailers: Entourage, Mission: Impossible, Silicon Valley, and more | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}