{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nThe last few weeks of trailers have been filled with a lot of smaller movies landing between summer's blockbusters and winter's Oscar flicks, but this week everything is getting big again. There are 11 trailers below, including some of the best we already saw this week, and a number of others that are worth checking out as well.\nInterstellar\nJust to reiterate: we're pretty excited for this one. Christopher Nolan's latest looks epic and awe-inspiring, and it's gearing up to be one of the highlights of the year. A warning, though: this trailer show a lot, so don't watch if you don't want too many details. It's out November 7th.\nInside Out\nIf it feels like it's been forever since you watched a Pixar trailer, that's pretty much because it has: this is the first year in a while that Pixar hasn't had a new movie out. But Pixar has one coming next June, and it finally revealed a first look at the film this week. It's a very short first look, but it definitely gives you the sense that Pixar is back on its game.\nExodus: Gods and Kings\nThere are some good reasons to be skeptical about how Ridley Scott's next film will turn out, but there's something about its first full trailer that gives us some hope. The trailer has this wonderfully mournful tone, and that just makes its biggest moments feel all the bigger too. It's out on December 12th.\nTak3n\nIsn't that gruff voice just wonderful? Taken 3, which is actually called Tak3n, is exactly what you'd expect and in the best ways possible. Liam Neeson fights some dudes. It's great. It looks like The Fugitive, but if Harrison Ford killed everyone but his wife.\nAmerican Sniper\nI'm not sure that I've ever seen a more nail-bitingly intense trailer than this. Seriously \u2014 this first look at Clint Eastwood's next film, American Sniper, is basically just one scene, and it's harrowing in every way. It stars Bradley Cooper as US Navy SEAL Chris Kyle, whose autobiography the film is based on. It comes out on Christmas and opens wide a few weeks later.\nThe Theory of Everything\nThere's been a lot of Oscar talk around The Theory of Everything, a biopic telling the story of Stephen Hawking, and this trailer is going right after the Academy. It'll be in theaters November 7th.\nThe Imitation Game\nThe Imitation Game is the other big biopic coming out this year, and it also put out a new trailer this week. The film focuses on legendary codebreaker Alan Turing and his work on cracking the German Enigma code. It's out on November 21st.\nThe Water Diviner\nRussell Crowe is directing a feature for the first time, and he isn't starting small. The Water Diviner has Crowe's character traveling from Australia to Turkey, facing off against dust storms, sword fights, and melodrama in order to save his sons. It looks way over the top emotionally, but Crowe is clearly trying to make this into a grandiose fable \u2014 and it looks like he's succeeding. There's no release date in the US yet, but it's coming to Australia and New Zealand on December 26th.\nJohn Wick\nThis movie looks totally ridiculous. But maybe in an awesome way. It's out on October 24th.\nAmerican Horror Story Freak Show\nAmerican Horror Story is almost here again, and it looks as creepy as ever. Its first real trailer debut earlier this week, and the show will be back on October 8th.\nInherent Vice\nPaul Thomas Anderson is back, and this time he's adapting a detective novel from legendary author Thomas Pynchon. Anderson, whose films include There Will Be Blood and Boogie Nights, is a force on his own, and this first trailer for his next film is just oozing with energy. Seriously, we can't wait to see it. It's out this December.\n","Title":"New trailers: 'Interstellar,' 'Tak3n,' Pixar's 'Inside Out,' and more | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}