{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nA ton of new trailers came out this week, and a lot of them were actually pretty good. Not only that, but even the kind-of-bad ones are ridiculous enough to be worth checking out. Below, you can find the 17 best of the week.\nStraight Outta Compton\nNWA are still as important as ever, and so it's more than fitting that we're seeing their rise to fame brought to screen. A first trailer for the biopic Straight Outta Compton came out this week and \u2014 after an introduction from Ice Cube and Dr. Dre \u2014 starts to show the mid-'80s world from which they emerged. The movie will be in theaters August 14th. (The trailer contains some nudity.)\nSpectre\nIt's not quite a trailer, but it is the first look at the next James Bond. The behind-the-scenes doesn't reveal too much, but it certainly makes it clear that Bond is going back to some gorgeous locations \u2014 just as you'd expect. The film is planned for a release on November 6th.\nDivergent: Insurgent\nInsurgent continues to release trailers that work entirely because of their cool visual effects, and this latest does not let down on that. It's not that there's anything hugely remarkable here, it's more that Insurgent took the time to create a style that's unlike what other action films are using, which we definitely appreciate. It'll be in theaters March 20th.\nThe Man from UNCLE\nSpy movies are always more fun when they have some style. And so far, the update to NBC's classic TV series, The Man from UNCLE, definitely looks like fun. It's directed by Guy Ritchie, who was behind 2009's Sherlock Holmes, and stars Henry Cavill. It'll be in theaters August 14th.\nTrainwreck\nHere's all you need to know: Trainwreck is directed by Judd Apatow and is written by and stars Amy Schumer. That's a pretty incredible combination, and the results mash up both of their sensibilities in exactly the way you'd hope. It'll be in theaters July 17th.\nHot Pursuit\nNot only is Hot Pursuit a buddy comedy that stars two women (Reese Witherspoon and Sofía Vergara), it was actually directed by a woman, too (that would be Anne Fletcher, who was previously behind Step Up). That's an unfortunately rare combination around Hollywood, so take a moment to check it out. It'll be in theaters May 8th.\nPitch Perfect 2\nIt's Anna Kendrick a cappella. What more can you ask for? Plus, Elizabeth Banks directs. It'll be in theaters May 15th.\nAloha\nSony may not have much faith in it, but Cameron Crowe's new film looks like it should be at least a little bit sweet and a funny. It has an incredible cast, too. It'll be in theaters this May.\nHappyish\nSteve Coogan has a new comedy over on Showtime. It appears to be about Coogan's character undergoing something of a mid-life crisis and trying to figure out what happiness actually means to him, which is a broad enough concept to just let this comedy do what it wants to do. It'll premiere April 26th.\nSilicon Valley\nWhat do you do after winning TechCrunch Disrupt? Apparently, pretty much the same things as usual. Silicon Valley returns to HBO on April 12th.\nCinderella\nDisney's live-action Cinderella is looking better with each trailer, with this latest one giving the hero some time to yell at someone else for a chance. There's obviously a lot of CG, but the visuals also look dense and elaborate in a wonderful way. It'll be in theaters March 13th.\nLast Knights\nOn one hand, this movie has Morgan Freeman, Clive Owen, and sword fighting. On the other, its name might be a pun. It'll be in theaters and on-demand starting April 3rd.\nBloodline\nThis certainly isn't among the most anticipated upcoming Netflix series, but it's coming soon and definitely looks good. The series is a dark family drama, and it stars Friday Night Lights' Kyle Chandler. The entire season will be on Netflix starting March 20th.\nHitman: Agent 47\nYou know that thing people always say about movies based on video games? Hitman: Agent 47 certainly isn't about to buck the trend. Its actual trailer is a lot less tasteless than the fake YouTube reaction videos for it, but what is in here is all pretty over the top. It's supposed to come out later this year.\nBig Game\nSynopsis: President Samuel L. Jackson is stranded in a forest where he's being hunted down by dudes with guns. A small boy with a bow and arrow is his only hope for survival. This is just ridiculous enough to be great, right?\nJauja\nEven if it doesn't take place in the West, Jauja is very much a western \u2014 and it looks like it's going to be a gorgeous one at that. The film stars Viggo Mortensen as an army engineer in the late 1800s whose daughter runs away with a soldier. It's shot in a way that makes it look a little like something out of the past, and it's hard not to love it for that. The film opens next months in New York and Los Angeles and will be followed by a wider release.\nEisenstein In Guanajuato\nAlright film nerds, it's time to pay close attention. Eisenstein In Guanajuato is the latest film from Peter Greenaway, the director behind The Cook, the Thief, His Wife & Her Lover, and it's about Sergei Eisenstein, the director of the hugely influential Russian propaganda film Battleship Potemkin. It looks beautiful, it looks funny, it looks wonderfully eccentric. There's no word yet on when it'll be released, but you know you'll want to see it.\n","Title":"New trailers: Straight Outta Compton, Silicon Valley, Netflix's Bloodline, and more | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}