{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nThe Wall Street Journal reports that renowned actor Philip Seymour Hoffman was today found dead in his New York City apartment. Although neither the NYPD nor the coroner's office has publicly given a reason for the 46-year-old actor's death,  The New York Times cites an anonymous officer as stating it was drug-related.\nReports from the scene allege that Hoffman was found in his bathroom with a hypodermic needle in his arm, suggesting the actor's death was the result of an accidental overdose. Hoffman had already struggled with drug-related issues in recent years.  TMZ reported last May that the actor had checked himself into rehab for prescription pill and heroin abuse after \"falling off the wagon\" in 2012.\nHoffman's career spanned a diverse range of roles\nHoffman's career spanned a diverse range of roles across a variety of media, from early work in Boogie Nights, The Big Lebowski, and Magnolia, to his Oscar-winning performance in Capote. The actor gained many accolades for his work, including Academy Award nominations for Doubt and The Master. The actor also received three Tony Award nominations for his work onstage, including a Best Leading Actor nod for his 2012 turn as Willy Loman in Death of a Salesman.\nMore recently, the actor was cast in the role of  Plutarch Heavensbee in The Hunger Games: Catching Fire . Hoffman was set to reprise his role in the final movies of the trilogy, Mockingjay; although filming on the first Mockingjay movie is said to be complete, it's unclear what will happen in the trilogy's future. Meanwhile, the long-term fate of Hoffman's comedy project Happyish,  which Showtime only picked earlier this month , is currently up in the air.\nHoffman is survived by his longtime partner Mimi O'Donnell and three children.\nUpdate: Lionsgate now tells Variety that Hoffman had already completed the majority of his scenes for Mockingjay parts one and two. The actor only had a week left to film for the final movie, but it's unclear what the company will do to make up for the lost time. Lionsgate also issued an official statement honoring his memory:\n\"Philip Seymour Hoffman was a singular talent and one of the most gifted actors of our generation.  We\u2019re very fortunate that he graced our Hunger Games family.  Losing him in his prime is a tragedy, and we send  our deepest condolences to Philip\u2019s family.\"\n","Title":"Philip Seymour Hoffman dead at 46 | The Verge","Tags":["culture","breaking","entertainment"]}