{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nDespite the internet\u2019s limitless reach, for the most part American audiences watch American shows \u2014 until, that is, they\u2019re bought up and remade a la The Office or House of Cards. But with the growing popularity and accessibility of international hits, it's becoming clear just how much TV talent is hiding overseas. So The Verge is taking an international tour of television\u2019s best and weirdest. This time, we're off to South Korea!\nIn the last decade or so, international audiences have become absolutely rabid in their love for Korean television. Korean shows are so popular in China that last year delegates met to wring their hands over why Chinese TV writers couldn\u2019t write a script as fantastic as the extraterrestrial liaison My Love From Another Star. In North Korea, the government has created a task force solely dedicated to hunting down bootleg South Korean DVDs. (The fact that North Koreans appear willing to risk a whole lot to continue watching their favorite soaps speaks to how addictive these shows really are.)  DramaFever , a streaming site that\u2019s been subtitling South Korean shows since 2008, says that  80 percent of its viewers are coming from outside Asia. And here in America, tween-oriented Korean soaps attract significant press and extreme devotion from their fans.\nin the last few months I\u2019ve fallen into a K-hole\nThe modern success of Korean TV dates back to the early \u201870s, when fierce competition between small commercial stations created a huge market for campy, romantic South Korean soaps. Rags-to-riches Cinderella stories were frequently rehashed, and government censorship coupled with the country\u2019s Confuscian values ensured storylines stayed sweet and virtuous.\nSince the \u201890s, relaxed regulations and increased financial support has resulted in higher-budget, more globally oriented television: the massive success of 2002\u2019s Winter Sonata \u2014 a 20-episode tale set in rural Korea featuring brainwashing, illegitimate children, and secret identities \u2014 is often cited as ground zero for modern South Korean television. For the past decade or so, most of the attention on Korean television has focused on romantic soaps \u2014 or K-dramas \u2014 featuring drippy, chaste stories of affection, boy-meets-softly-lit-girl, and, often, time-hopping in the name of love.\nThese Korean directors will make you believe in badass again\nBut I kept wondering what Korean TV looked like when it was about, say, beating the shit out of bad guys. In the last few months I\u2019ve fallen into a K-hole of my own and (no judgement, please, it\u2019s the middle of winter) watched something like 30 Korean action movies. What I\u2019ve learned is that directors like Jeong-beom Lee and Kim Jee-woon (see also: Bong Joon-ho\u2019s Snowpiercer and The Host) will make you believe in badass again. And seriously, if you haven\u2019t seen The Good The Bad The Weird yet, please just stop right now and slide over to this tab instead.\nGiven the renaissance of Korean action and sci-fi movies, I thought I\u2019d see what their small-screen counterparts looked like. I reviewed 20  Korean shows on Netflix , and in my extraordinarily scientific process, I ruled out shows whose titles included keywords like \"love\" and \"kiss\" (5), shows with sparkles on their covers (2), shows about teens (3), and shows where the covers depicted a dude and a girl gazing at and \/ or wistfully away from each other (7). What was left? A vampire, a queen, an ultimate fighter, a murdered child, and a surgeon.\nWorst idea that is actually the best show: Vampire Prosecutor\nWatch if you: want SVU,True Blood, and the X-Files rolled up into one show.\nI had no idea Vampire Prosecutor was what I was missing in my life until it came looking for me. On the surface, it\u2019s pretty much what you\u2019d think: Min Tae-yeon is a vampire who uses his bloodthirsty ways to solves crimes. But in this punchy, fashionable crime procedural, the vampire\u2019s breed is a shade more Only Lovers Left Alive than Twilight. Super-hip Tae-yeon stalks around Seoul in sunglasses and a skinny suit, sipping black-market blood in trendy nightclubs. He\u2019s joined in the \"special cases division\" by a crime-solving team of mortal ruffians and misfits with few or no social skills, most of whom exude waves of nihilism and chic as if they were vampires themselves.\nStylistically, Vampire Prosecutor toes a fine line between campy barbarism and super-slick sci-fi. On one hand, Tae-yeon and his high-tech buddies have access to some truly awesome holographic tools; on the other hand, the show\u2019s first 10 minutes take place in a military bunker where some Medieval-looking medical science is being performed on a guy wearing a crude leather muzzle. Crisp, funny, and featuring some fantastically well-conceived reverse-timelapse effects, Vampire Prosecutor contains spare moments that feel similar to some of South Korea\u2019s more gorgeous gangster movies, e.g. The Man from Nowhere.\nMost Light-hearted drama about human rights abuses: Doctor Stranger\nWatch if you: want a lighthearted romance with all the surgical gore of The Knick.\nDoctor Stranger, like a handful of other South Korean shows, has assembled an illegal yet passionate following in North Korea \u2014 last year  The Guardian reported that the show, which opens with a South Korean father and son imprisoned in a North Korean medical facility, was being smuggled and widely distributed among the North\u2019s students. Given that much of the drama rests on the North\u2019s human rights abuses \u2014 and, for dramatic effect, a love story \u2014 it\u2019s no surprise young people in the state are so keen to see their country reflected back to them.\nIn Doctor Stranger, the pixie-like, mischievous, and stubborn Park Hoon and his father (a talented heart surgeon), are conned into visiting North Korea, only to be trapped in a lab where they are forced to perform mysterious, terrible procedures in the interest of saving the North\u2019s dictator and his failing heart. Hoon, obsessed with finding his lifelong sweetheart Jae-hee, eventually returns to the South, where his trouble with North Korean agents has only just begun. For a show with such dark themes and particularly nasty surgery scenes, Doctor Stranger is surprisingly lighthearted and, yes, soapy; expect, in addition to firing squads and tense, floodlit scenes, extended bike rides through the flowery fields and ample tearstained goodbyes.\nWeirdest genre pastiche: City Hunter\nWatch if you: want a comedic Homeland filtered through the gauzy, rose-colored tint of teenaged dreams.\nCity Hunter, which first debuted in Korea in 2011 and only ran for one season, is based on a Japanese manga of the same name and stars the extraordinarily dreamy, pillow-lipped Lee Min-ho as the titular \"City Hunter,\" Lee Yoon-sung. (Lee actually got his first starring role in a feature film in the recently released gangster-noir Gangnam Blues.)\nThe show opens close to Yoon-sung\u2019s birth, as his father and his father\u2019s best friend \u2014 both basically secret service \u2014 are betrayed by South Korean politicians during a classified mission in retaliation for a North Korean bombing of a presidential envoy in Burma (based on the Rangoon bombing of 1983 ). Yoon-sung\u2019s father is killed, and all records of the mission are purged. The father\u2019s best friend, Park Moo-yul, survives and does just the sort of thing grieving military men are wont to do: steal the infant Lee Jin-pyo from his biological mother and spend the next 18 years or so stomping around a makeshift boot camp wearing twin shoulder holsters, training the young Lee Yoon-sung in the art of fighting until his hands bleed, and plotting vengeance.\nBut that\u2019s all backstory. The meat of City Hunter takes place once Lee Yoon-sung grows up: despite being raised by drug lords and paramilitary wackos, he is a polite and well-adjusted young man who even finds time to star in playful slow-motion scenes with his pet \/ best friend, an elephant \u2014 and hunt down the politicians who betrayed his father.\nOne of the things I love most about Korean movies is how they manage to nestle moments of slapstick physical comedy into otherwise super-serious or action-packed moments. City Hunter, similarly, treats many of its fight sequences as if its characters were throwing pies instead of punches. In City Hunter, the camera angles are madcap and the colors super-bright. For an action show about a man-turned-killing machine taking down corrupt politicians, it\u2019s actually pretty loopy.\nBest tear-stained monologue promising violent motherly vengeance: God's Gift: 14 Days\nWatch if you: want a shadowy tale of abduction in the key of Top of The Lake with a time-hopping, Lost-like mash-up of magic and sci-fi.\nGod\u2019s Gift opens with a lushly animated fable about a mother trying to save her child from the grips of death. At one point, she claws her eyeballs out and throws them into a lake in order to retrieve her child using occult means; if God\u2019s Gift at times veers into saccharine territory or tacks on some graceless coincidences, keep that tale in mind. The show stumbles at times, but it usually finds its way back to the spooky and at times violent paranormal activity foreshadowed in its first episode.\nThe protagonist of God\u2019s Gift, Kim Soo-hyun, is a high-profile writer for a successful TV show in which its hosts tackle unsolved crimes in something that resembles an NBC segment crossed with Maury. Beautiful, driven, and unforgiving, Soo-hyun\u2019s character is the cliché of the neglectful working mom: for all her love for her bubbly kid, Saet-byul, the show indicts her for being alternately absent or  wildly overbearing. But when the adorable Saet-byul is murdered by a (legit pretty terrifying) serial killer in a live-streamed torture spectacle, Soo-hyun loses it \u2014 first at home, then on live television in an awesome, extended monologue delivered through wrathful tears.\nBy the third episode, some of the foreboding symbols \u2014 creepy old ladies, weird coincidences, omens \u2014 start to pay off, and we learn that Soo-hyun possesses the power to slip back in time, a talent that allows her to try to make good on her promise to the serial killer: to \"look for you to the ends of the earth, and to kill you.\"\nMost intrusive magical realism: The Great Queen Seondeok\nWatch if you: want Game of Thrones in the style of Ricos y Famosos.\nI had high hopes for The Great Queen Seondeok, which, since its 2009 debut, has won a raft of awards for its condensed and fictionalized account of its titular character\u2019s ascent to the throne. The IRL Queen Seondeok was the first woman to rule the Korean kingdom of Silla, from 632 to 647 AD; this show begins in 572 and narrates the infighting, backstabbing, and prophecy-mongering that preceded her rein. It also, dubiously, portrays the queen (then Princess Deokman) as being raised partially in the Taklamakan Desert and slipping back into Silla disguised as a boy \u2014 a righteous, if totally untrue, backstory.\nIn the show\u2019s pilot, King Jinpyeong \u2014 a ruler so brimming with honor he gets about 10 minutes of screen time to explain how he killed a tiger with something that resembles a switchblade \u2014 kicks the bucket, leaving the rest of the kingdom\u2019s court to alternately grieve and scheme their ascent to power. All the usual players are there: a demonic couple plotting evil between heavy petting sessions; a set of pure-as-the-driven snow twins; and a power-hungry concubine. As a guilty pleasure this show could probably hold up, but the combination of soft telenovela-level lighting and predictable writing turned me off somewhat \u2014 not to mention the glowing, floating magical egg-orb that was pretty much the star of the first episode.\n","Title":"Planet TV: Seoul Surfing | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment","tv"]}