{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nDespite the internet\u2019s limitless reach, for the most part American audiences watch American shows \u2014 until, that is, they\u2019re bought up and remade a la The Office or House of Cards. But with the growing popularity of, say, Scandinavian crime shows or British black comedies it\u2019s becoming exceedingly clear just how much TV talent is hiding overseas. To give you a peek at what\u2019s out there, we\u2019re taking an international tour of television\u2019s best and weirdest. This time around, we\u2019re headed to Russia.\nWhen Putin came to power in 2000, most Russians watched Brazilian and Mexican soaps, or cheap rip-offs of old American serials. Thanks in part to the country\u2019s economic growth, today much of Russia\u2019s entertainment television is homemade \u2014 but just as gaudy and absurd as the imported fare: on Jeopardy (aka Своя Игра), contestants wear wizard robes , and The Kitchen illustrates its protagonist\u2019s emotions with kitschy, lewd animations. Despite the very serious geopolitical situation the country finds itself in, these shows portray a flourishing \u2014 if garden-variety dramatic \u2014 Russia.\nRecently, Russian TV shows have begun selling to other markets. A few months ago, Hulu partnered with the global video-on-demand studio Digital Media Rights to stream a handful of its Russian shows with (pretty horrendous) subtitles for English-language viewers. The shows stick tightly to their genres: comedies rely on slapstick humor and dramas revolve around age-old subjects like adultery and alcoholism. Thanks to mandatory military conscription, there are more army uniforms and plotlines involving PTSD than you find in American television. And parental advice \u2014 as well as characters living with their aging parents \u2014 figures prominently. Regardless, this batch of shows brings you some characters you\u2019re probably well-acquainted with (corporate villains, spurned lovers, oblivious millennials) and some you aren\u2019t \u2014 like a vigilante child support debt collector named Natasha.\nBest Sci-fi Pastiche: The Day After\nWatch if you: Like Fringe and X-files but yearned for more skinheads and smartphone-addicted ravers.\nThe Day After \u2014 not to be confused with the doom-laden made-for-TV tale of nuclear winter of the same name \u2014 is the kind of show that immediately inspires you to take bets on who\u2019ll bite the dust first. From the moment when a group of strangers awaken in a cavernous and dimly lit bunker with no memory of how they arrived there, it\u2019s essentially a race to see whose character traits will prove fatal first. This show\u2019s got a truly committed spectrum of fully fledged stock caricatures: the terrified girl in a lacy dress tottering around on buckled knees, the pale creepy nerd who knows more than he\u2019s letting on, and the foolish EDM-flavored millennial (a near shoe-in for Jesse Eisenberg) constantly training his phone\u2019s camera on the action and narrating it as if he were a Big Brother contestant. Oh, then there\u2019s the full-on skinhead tramping around the shady bunker like he\u2019s in a circle pit. Elsewhere, diabolical bad guys \u2014 part-David Bowie, part-Donald Trump \u2014 finger-colored crystals and slowly leak their plans for world domination and \/ or salvation from behind the front of their mega-corporation (in the subtitles, Acme Corp). If you\u2019re into shows like Fringe, the blend of mysticism and pseudoscience here will feel super familiar\u2014the first few episodes alone feature chemical warfare, abandoned surgical equipment, inexplicably appearing mute children, and a scene from the afterlife.\nMost Inventive Twist on a Cop Show: The Ex-Wife\nWatch if: You want a CSI experience where deadbeat dads replace sex criminals.\nIn 2010, Moscow officials reported that 98 percent of alimony in the city goes unpaid , which perhaps explains why a show about a vigilante child support debt collector makes sense in Russia. Natasha is the eponymous ex-wife struggling to care for her child on a lounge singer\u2019s salary; when her former husband reappears after a few years only to dodge a court-ordered property seizure, she goes, understandably, a little bananas. Enraged, Natasha scribbles a manifesto disguised as a job application to federal services that declares, in rough translation, \"Fathers will pay for every single tear you shed.\" She is immediately given a job on the strength of her punchy hand-written rant. In The Ex-Wife, the Russian federal services office is a fun-loving and deeply honorable place, which seems like a stretch. Then again, in Andy Sandberg\u2019s Brooklyn Nine-Nine, the NYPD come off looking like a bunch of harmless and jovial pranksters. I was hoping justice might come in a swifter and bloodier form for the ex-husbands in this show, but unfortunately Natasha\u2019s weapon of choice is talking gentle sense into deadbeat dads and repossessing their TVs, even as they train shotguns at her in vodka-soaked stupors.\nMost Inexplicable Popularity: The Kitchen\nWatch if: You\u2019d like a Top Chef-flavored office procedural where the main character has cartoon hallucinations and a top-notch sweater game.\nThis show is so popular that it\u2019s been spun off into both a feature-length film and a documentary about the making of said feature-length film. In The Kitchen, Max is a young and boastful wannabe chef who gets his start cooking in the army. Thanks to a series of mishaps, he lands in \"Claude Monet,\" one of the nicest restaurants in Moscow, only to be mercilessly hazed by his fellow cooks and the hulking alcoholic head chef. Dmitriy Nagiev, by all accounts a wildly popular actor in Russia, plays himself as the wealthy actor and owner of the restaurant: expect ample aviator sunglasses and miles of acid wash denim. This is a goofy slapstick sitcom, with extended comedic montages set to Western pop songs, emotive animated sequences, and lots of physical comedy with knives and pastry squeeze guns. Brace yourself for a painfully long and bizarre food-fetish sex scene in one of the first episodes.\nSpookiest Setting: Pure Gold\nWatch if: you liked Twin Peaks but thought it could do with fewer midgets, magic, red velvet, coffee, donuts, sex workers, and dream sequences.\nIt\u2019s no Twin Peaks or Top of the Lake, but this atmospheric crime drama deals in a similar genre of misty small-town secrecy. Set among the epic snow drifts and ramshackle lodges of barely-settled Siberia, Pure Gold follows a scientist as she studies the area\u2019s surrounding wilderness. When one of her soil samples is stolen and the thief who nicked it is brutally stabbed, she joins a local \u2014 played by Evgenij Pronin, basically Mother Russia\u2019s Matt Damon \u2014 in tracking it down. Spoiler: the soil isn\u2019t soil at all, but gold, of such purity as to be near-magical. As the scientist and her new friend race across snowdrifts and trade thinly veiled declarations of love, they\u2019re alternately pursued and sweet-talked by the square-shouldered local sheriff and various crusty Siberian residents, all of whom know far more than they\u2019re letting on. This show nails, if not the dramatic tension, at least the male lead: Matt Damonovsky plays the wounded small-town ex-con with a boy-band level of soulful eyebrow action.\nMost Batshit Premise: Love Formula\nWatch if: Orange is the New Black appealed to you but you\u2019d prefer to think of prison as a hetero dating service.\nIf the shows on Hulu are a reliable sample group, Russian TV has no shortage of spurned and mistreated women. But no woman is more screwed over than Tatiana, who stars in Love Formula, a romance show about going to prison. Tatiana, devoted wife and mother, dotes on her wealthy husband and only child, the latter of whom harbors dreams of government work and is engaged to be married. But on the night of a celebration, he gets drunk and hits a woman with his car. In a veritable fit of martyrdom, Tatiana takes the fall for his crime and winds up in a penal colony\u2014a prison which looks downright lovely, considering what we know about incarceration in Russia . The bulk of the show centers around the interpersonal dramas that plague Tatiana: her spoiled son\u2019s wedding goes on without her; her husband shacks up with his mistress; and Tatiana, jealous and then enraged, finds herself going doe-eyed for a kind and handsome fellow prisoner.\n","Title":"Planet TV: In Russia, TV watches you | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}