{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nThe Star Wars: Episode VII set seems to be a leaky ship.  Minor details from the upcoming film have been finding their way online since filming began, and now a couple of reports claim to have an idea of how the film's plot is going to play out. Of course, if you want to go into the next Star Wars installment with fresh eyes, you better stop reading here. And don't feel too bad \u2014 there really are just bits and pieces at this point.\nPossible spoilers ahead!\nAccording to separate reports from  Indie Revolver and  Latino Review , the film will feature a lengthy flashback to explain the history behind the film's main villains, the Sith Inquisitors. The flashback (or flashbacks) will reportedly take place when Leia is little more than a young girl, which explains why Carrie Fisher's daughter, Billie Lourde, was cast in the film.\nThere's a new evil rising in space\nAnd perhaps as a bit of fan service, the Dark Lord himself will return courtesy of the flashback as well. Darth Vader will be at his prime and will see at least a bit of screen time, if the rumors pan out. But most importantly for the new trilogy, the flashback will let J.J. Abrams and company slightly modify history to make room for a new evil to be fought. The end of The Return of the Jedi, after all, left the Empire all but annihilated.\nIt's rumored that things apparently get started when Luke is abducted, and it turns out that the  Sith Inquisitors are behind it. While the Inquisitors haven't been in any of the six prior Star Wars films, they have been featured in the \"Expanded Universe\" of books, comics, and video games that surround the franchise. Disney has announced that those works are non-canon, but it appears the filmmakers are borrowing ideas from those other works.\nIt's said that the main villain will be a cyborg Sith Inquisitor. Little is known about this particular Inquisitor, but Indie Revolver's managed to get its hands on what's said to be an image of the villain clutching Darth Vader's cracked helmet. According to the site he has \"some robotic upgrades, like Vader \u2013 but no mask. The cybernetic bits weave in and out of him. He\u2019s got a human upper lip, a steel jaw.\" And the robotic hand that  J.J. Abrams tweeted out this week might just belong to this new evildoer. Needless to say, the Sith Inquisitor is up to no good, and he'll surely give  Han Solo and crew ample fodder for what'll hopefully be another fun romp through space.\nNaturally, neither Disney nor J.J. Abrams have confirmed any of this, and we shouldn't expect to know anything for sure until the film hits theaters. There is reason to believe that there's truth to these rumors since they've been corroborated by two separate reports, but anything and everything could change before December 18th, 2015, when Star Wars returns to the silver screen.\n","Title":"Possible plot details leak from 'Star Wars: Episode VII' set | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}