{"Main text":"Surface Pro 3 128GB i5 at Best Buy ($899)\nThe Surface Pro 3 might not be our favorite tablet , but it is one of the best around. If you're willing to trade the portability that you get with something smaller (like an iPad or a Nexus 7), Microsoft's premium tablet might be for you. It makes a pretty great laptop replacement (even if it doesn't work that well on your lap), and we loved the pen and the revamped hinge when we reviewed it last spring. None of the configuration options are cheap, but Best Buy is offering $100 off the 128GB i5 model.\nLogitech Ultrathin Keyboard Cover for iPad mini at Amazon ($37)\nIt's easy to laugh at the idea of a keyboard cover, but don't tell me there hasn't been at least one time where you found yourself wishing you had a physical keyboard instead of a touchscreen. There are some settings where physical feedback just works better, but good keyboard covers are usually expensive. If you own an iPad Mini and think you might someday want a keyboard, you can get Logitech's Ultrathin cover on sale right now at Amazon.\nBeats Studio 2.0 Over-the-Ear Headphones at Target ($30 off)\nThere is no shortage of options when it comes to headphones, so if you're looking for pure quality at the cost of slick design you can always find something that sounds better than what Beats offers. But headphones are no longer just about sound. They've become statement pieces for a new generation, and serve as much of a purpose as part of a person's outfit as they do with delivering sound to your ears. That's partly why they're still so expensive. Target will give you $30 off the various designs of the Beats Studio 2.0.\nUnlocked Sony Xperia Z3 Compact at Sony ($499)\nThere's no hiding how much we loved Sony's Xperia Z3 when we got our hands on it last fall. Sony's smaller option, the 4.6-inch Z3 Compact, was just as good while offering a more comfortable size and lower price. The screen might not be as good as the one on the 5.2-inch Z3, but the phone is waterproof, has a good camera, and it's fast. If that sounds like your kind of phone, Sony has it unlocked for $30 off.\n(Affiliate links are automatically generated by our partner, Skimlinks. For more information, see our ethics policy .)\nLearn more\n","Title":"Price Check: Microsoft's Surface Pro 3, Beats headphones, and the Sony Xperia Z3 | The Verge","Tags":["good-deals","tech"]}