{"Main text":"Razer\u2019s Forge TV is an Android micro-console with PC gaming roots\nThe latest console for the TV comes from the experts at gaming on the PC\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nWhen Google launched its Android TV software in June of last year, part of the big announcement was the promise of a new gaming micro-console produced by respected peripheral maker Razer. Today, that device has been fully detailed and specced out: the tiny Razer Forge TV runs Android TV on a quad-core Snapdragon 805 processor, costs $99.99 ($149.99 with a controller), and will ship in the first quarter of 2015.\nSee all the latest CES 2015 news here \u203A\nWith an Adreno 420 GPU, 2GB of RAM, and 16GB of onboard storage, the Forge TV is scarcely distinguishable from the typical Android smartphone's specs, though it's designed to make the most out of them in the living room context. At its base price of $99.99, the device is unimpressive: you don't even get a physical remote control and have to rely on the Android app to control streaming to the box, which is almost the exact same size as an Apple TV. But that's not really the Forge TV that Razer wants to sell. Instead, the company would like everyone to step up to the $149.99 bundle with its newly introduced Serval Bluetooth controller, which makes gaming on the Android TV that much more pleasurable and also includes what may turn out to be the Forge TV's killer feature: game streaming from your PC.\nIt's an Android smartphone inside an Apple TV box \u2014 but for Razer the accessories are more important\nRazer's Cortex Stream service will let you remotely play any game from your PC on the Forge micro-console. Unlike Nvidia\u2019s game streaming for the Shield and Shield Tablet, which is limited to GeForce graphics cards, Cortex Stream supports both Nvidia and AMD chipsets and can handle your entire games library, including stuff from Steam, Origin, Battle.net, and Uplay. It\u2019s launching in beta soon and supports 1080p streaming with what Razer CEO Min-Liang Tan says is an essentially lag-free experience. You'll be able to get the benefit of it if you buy the Forge + Serval bundle, the Serval controller by itself ($79.99), or the other new addition to Razer's budding range for the living room: the folding Turret lapboard, which costs $129.99.\nRazer\u2019s goal with the Forge TV is to build a uniquely awesome ecosystem around a relatively basic entertainment hub. The company has adapted its Sabertooth Bluetooth controller for Xbox and turned it into the Serval gamepad. It\u2019s designed for Android but works across a broad range of platforms, including Steam Boxes, and also comes with a clip that will let you attach your phone to the top of it and convert it into a sort of makeshift Nvidia Shield device.\nThe Turret wants to bring the keyboard and mouse directly to your couch\nTo make the most out of streaming from the PC, Razer is introducing another new peripheral today: the Turret Lapboard. This keyboard and mouse combination tries to solve the age-old problem of playing games that require traditional PC inputs \u2014 such as the hugely popular Dota 2 and League of Legends multiplayer titles \u2014 by bringing those exact controls to the couch. A magnet keeps the mouse from falling off its tracking surface, and the whole set is designed to be compact and comfortable enough to simply rest on your lap. The Razer Turret isn\u2019t cheap at $129.99, but could make for an excellent combination with Cortex Stream, quite aside from the Android gaming capabilities that the Forge TV offers.\n","Title":"Razer\u2019s Forge TV is an Android micro-console with PC gaming roots | The Verge","Tags":["google","gaming","hd-home","tech","ces-2015"]}