{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nAnyone who\u2019s played chess probably remembers the first time they learned how the pieces move. On that list is the bishop, which can only move diagonally, but will travel until it collides with another player\u2019s piece. There\u2019s something wonderfully freeing yet restricting about this ages-old mechanic, which has been adapted into a diabolically hard iOS game called Snow Roll . In it, you play a penguin that can only move diagonally as you race down a mountain slope while riding atop a giant snowball. Like Flappy Bird, it\u2019s simple enough that an amoeba could play it, yet requires so much dexterity that you feel accomplished for surviving just 10 seconds.\nLike many other endless runners, Snow Roll generates what\u2019s in front of you dynamically. That makes every game different, and keeps you playing round after round. It also means there will be games that kill you in seconds played back to back with ones that make you feel like a golden god.\nWhat\u2019s worth coming back for? Your score goes up one point for each second you stay alive, and there are coins to be earned along the way. The coins are mostly useless, but you can use them to bet on a shell minigame where the reward is...another snowball design. These new designs have no effect on gameplay, but for $3.99 you can buy a ball that earns you coins twice as fast. There are also power-ups you can pick up along the way that let you survive instant death for a brief period of time. All these things are standard fare in endless runners, but they do keep you coming back for more.\nPlaying again makes the game harder\nThere are some dangers to playing back to back games, though. Your own crashed snowballs from previous runs become impassable obstacles, making future runs that much more perilous. These seem to disappear after a few games, but the pattern is unpredictable. It also gives you a nice feeling when you dodge them unscathed.\nSnow Roll\u2019s creators, Happymagenta, designed the game during a two-day hackathon and were apparently just about to release it when developer Ketchapp came out with a game called ZigZag ( iTunes , Google Play ) that employed a similar diagonal-movement mechanic. Happymagenta says it decided to go back to the drawing board and add more features, like being able to spend money on prizes, before releasing Snow Roll \u2014 and that\u2019s a good thing. Even so, everyone I\u2019ve shown it to appears to have the same initial reaction. \u201CI hate this game without playing it,\u201D said one coworker. \u201CThis is horrible,\u201D said another. It\u2019s free to play, though, and worth a run or two into certain oblivion.\n","Title":"Snow Roll beats Flappy Bird for maddening, horrible, phone-throwing hate gaming | The Verge","Tags":["gaming","apps","culture","hands--on","entertainment","tech"]}