{"Main text":"Spider-Man villain spin-off movie 'Sinister Six' set for 2016\n'Amazing Spider-Man 3' pushed back to 2018 as villains take the lead\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nSpider-Man isn't heading back into movie theaters as the star anytime soon, but a number of his biggest foes will. Sony said today that  its upcoming Sinister Six movie will head into theaters on November 11th, 2016,  according to Variety . There's no detail yet on exactly how the movie will turn six villains into the protagonists of a blockbuster, but it'll have Drew Goddard \u2014 director of The Cabin in the Woods and writer of Cloverfield \u2014 on board here as both writer and director to work it all out. The new Sinister Six is believed to be composed of Doctor Octopus, the Green Goblin, Vulture, Rhino, and potentially Kraven the Hunter and either Chameleon or Mysterio.\nThe hero gets pushed way back in favor of the villains\nThe bad news for Spider-Man fans is that the hero's next solo movie is being pushed way back. The Amazing Spider-Man 3 was  originally scheduled for June 2016 , but it's now being pushed to an indeterminate date in 2018, according to Variety. When Sony initially announced the sequel, it said that Marc Webb had not yet signed on to direct a third film, and there's no word today on whether that's changed either. There's clearly some hesitation around the series though: Variety notes that a fourth Amazing Spider-Man entry was originally planned for 2018.\nThe Spider-Man series is an important one to Sony, as it gives the studio a way to combat Marvel's constant release of superhero blockbusters (and doing so using one of Marvel's very own heroes). It's now planning to flesh out the Spider-Man universe with a world of villains, and Sinister Six appears to be the start to that. Given  reactions to The Amazing Spider-Man 2 , it'll have some work to do to win fans over, but ultimately Sony would like to  build one overarching tone and story for the series, much as Marvel has done. A Venom spinoff is also currently in the works.\nAlongside its two Spider-Man announcements, Sony is giving a date to one additional movie that'll have video game fans and anyone who loves the adventure genre happy: Uncharted. Its adaptation of the Playstation series has been set for a release on June 10th, 2016. Horrible Bosses director Seth Gordon is reported to be directing Uncharted, which may be our best bet at seeing a new Indiana Jones-style adventure at the movies.\n","Title":"Spider-Man villain spin-off movie 'Sinister Six' set for 2016 | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment","sdcc-2014\",\"Story Streams\"","\"5695384"]}