{"Main text":"Next\nThe Kinetic Desk goes beyond simple data tracking, though. Users can alternate between preset standing and sitting heights simply by double-tapping the touchscreen, but there's also an \"active mode\" that can be enabled by pressing a button on the front of the desk. Active mode is built entirely on the concept that the Kinect Desk can actually learn your sitting and standing habits and use that data to encourage you to stand up at times when it has learned you're likely to. Learning mode is based on a built-in thermal sensor that detects when you're at the desk \u2014 it wakes up when you're nearby and uses that info to learn your preferences over time. Based on that knowledge, the desk can actually \"nudge\" you when in active mode as a reminder to change your position.\nA classy and elegant piece of furniture, if a bit plain\nThe desk \"nudges\" you by slowly rising and then falling a nearly imperceptible amount \u2014 probably an inch or so. Stir calls this \"WhisperBreath,\" because the slow rise and fall is meant to mimic taking a deep breath \u2014 it's a lot like the breathing sleep light that Apple used to include on its computers. I sat down at the desk to feel a WhisperBreath bump for myself, and it's not jarring whatsoever. If you're on the phone or eating lunch, you can easily ignore the desk's suggestion, but it gets your attention enough to encourage you to change your position if the time is right for you.\nSmart desks don't come cheap\nBeyond the Kinetics Desk's feature set it is a classy and elegant, if plain, piece of furniture. The surface is made up of a birch core with either a hard-coated glossy polymer or hardwood finish. Unfortunately, I didn't get to see the hardwood finish; the glossy polymer feels sturdy and is certainly easy to clean, but a wooden surface would likely be quite a bit more eye-catching. The top is Spartan aside from the lower-left side touchscreen and, on either side of the desk's surface, two ports for AC and USB outlets. A single power cord extends from the back and provides all the juice the desk needs. Another option for buyers is one of five accent colors for the desk's underside, power cord, and outlet compartments \u2014 the green option I saw definitely looked like it would match well with a new iPhone 5C.\nAll this technology and \"made in the US\" craftsmanship (the desktops are built in Brooklyn, and the desks are assembled outside of Nashville) doesn't come cheap. The Kinetic Desk will cost $3,890 when it launches in the first quarter of 2014, with pre-orders starting before the end of the year. You can definitely find mechanically adjustable standing desks for less, but Stir's pricing isn't out of line with premium models \u2014 and there's no doubt that it offers some unique features. Whether or not the Kinetic desk is worth its cost will depend on the software \u2014 if Stir can nail the learning mode and build a desk that truly adjust to your habits, it may have figured out how to get deskbound workers off their butts.\n","Title":"Stir\u2019s Kinetic Desk tries to turn work into a game | The Verge","Tags":["design","tech"]}