{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nThe fifth season of Game of Thrones premieres this Sunday night on HBO, though if you're reading this I'm sure you don't need me to remind you. You've already set your DVR, sent out the Evite for your watch party, ordered the case of Ommengang Three Eyed Raven , and have the wild boar marinating in the fridge for your pre-show feast. And I'm not here to judge you. Game of Thrones is the most fun show on television, and it absolutely merits whatever ancillary activities you need to optimize your viewing experience.\nWhen people tell me they can't get into Game of Thrones because they're turned off by fantasy, I genuinely pity them. Game of Thrones isn't fantasy. It's a game. Every episode is an hourlong series of dunks, fouls, hail marys, and other things that happen in sports. I don't watch Game of Thrones in the same way I watch, say, Mad Men (whose seasons have run concurrently with Thrones for the past few years and which serves as a perfect, if unintentional Sunday night chaser to the over-the-top hijinks going down in Westeros). I'm not looking to it for any deep insight on the human condition. Thrones isn't about its themes \u2014 family, power, oppression \u2014 though it weaves them together deftly in service of entertainment. It's about who's getting their head lopped off next and who will get the best oh-no-he-didn't one-liner of the week.\nGame of Thrones isn't fantasy, It's sports\nOver the past four seasons it was possible to have a leg up on some of these plays via George R. R. Martin's novels: an of almanac of sorts  literally stolen from 2015 . But now that the show is beginning to lap the books (and reportedly diverge from them dramatically ) GoT the show is officially unpredictable. And this is where the true Game of Game of Thrones begins.\nI assembled nine of my fellow Vergers to draft teams of six (five characters and one Special Teams faction) to see who will win this season of Game of Thrones. But winning means more than sitting in the Iron Throne or icing a bunch of ice zombies. It means dominating the season; being the MVP through a combination of screen time, quotable lines, killer outfits, and yes, bloodshed. Think of it as the NFL as scored by an Olympic figure skating judging panel. When you play the game of thrones, you win or you die, but when you play the Game of Game of Thrones, you can also get points for style.\nI'll post my in-depth, highly subjective scoring analysis every Monday throughout the season, but in the meantime, let's check out our lineups!\nBryan Bishop, Senior Entertainment Reporter\n1\n","Title":"The Game of Game of Thrones: who will win season five? | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment","tv"]}