{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nIt\u2019s funny how times change. Twenty years ago, the PlayStation was a skunkworks product that a renegade faction within Sony had just fought to get released. Now here we are in 2015, and Sony CEO Kaz Hirai \u2014 a former boss of the PlayStation division \u2014 has announced that the company is essentially going to stop trying to grow its consumer electronics businesses beside the PlayStation 4. The PlayStation isn\u2019t only Sony\u2019s last great product ; it might as well be Sony\u2019s only product.\nSony is The PlayStation Company.\nSony has always been the crown jewel of Japan\u2019s once-dominant technology industry. The company made beautifully designed, highly profitable devices in just about every category imaginable and imagined a few categories of its own. But the one invention with the potential to unify the company \u2014 the internet \u2014 proved to be its undoing. Sony botched the shift to digital music, it missed the move to smartphones and tablets, and has consistently failed to create a compelling ecosystem for its products. Now the smartphone \u2014 other companies\u2019 smartphones, usually \u2014 has replaced almost everything it sells.\nPlayStation is different. To be clear, the PS4 is the only truly compelling product that Sony sells today. That\u2019s not to say it\u2019s the only good product \u2014 almost everything the company makes is at least fit for purpose. But the PS4 is the only Sony product with genuine differentiation. Everything about its launch was textbook; Sony created a sleek, powerful, affordable console and targeted it right at the heart of a clear demographic while Microsoft sank its own credibility with boneheaded decision after decision.\nToday, the PlayStation brand stands for the cool, futuristic gaming experience as much as it ever did in the '90s. The PS4 isn't a do-everything box \u2014 it is simply ruthlessly efficient at what it is intended to do, offering unbeatable performance and design for the price. The Xbox One will continue to do fine in North America, but Sony is right back at the forefront of the colossal video games industry.\nSony moved out of the flagging Windows PC market last year, and yesterday Hirai said that he would not \"rule out\" doing the same with its TV and mobile divisions. That would be shocking to many, but it\u2019s encouraging to see Hirai even consider it. Sony should stop selling smartphones \u2014 it\u2019s too reliant on Google , and with even Samsung fading, the premium Android market just isn\u2019t fertile ground for anyone. Sony should stop selling TVs \u2014 it sounds unthinkable, but there\u2019s little profit or incentive for the company to remain in the industry since it sold its LCD panel division to form part of Japan Display. And, though the company just  announced it will spin off its audio and video business into a subsidiary, Sony should stop selling Walkmans, Blu-ray players, and countless other inconsequential distractions altogether \u2014 it\u2019s consistently failed to exploit the potential of having fingers in every pie.\nWhat Sony needs to do is focus on the people that want to give it money: that means Apple and Xiaomi, which buy its image sensors; that means moviegoers and music fans, who (along with Japanese life insurance customers) have propped up the company\u2019s bottom line for years; and yes, that means gamers, the only group who appears to believe that Sony remains relevant in consumer electronics.\nWhat would a PlayStation-first Sony look like? It would need to be a lot smaller, for one thing. Games consoles are unlikely to be a growth business again \u2014 Sony itself created the most successful one of all time over 15 years ago. The PlayStation 2 sold 155 million units, sank Sega, and nearly knocked out Nintendo for good. The PlayStation 3 sold around 80 million units, though, as Nintendo\u2019s Wii swept up the casual audience, which now appears to have abandoned dedicated devices altogether for mobile. There is absolutely a core base of people who will remain willing to pay for games consoles, but it\u2019s limited in size.\nThere's a big difference between the PS2 and PS4\nThere\u2019s a big difference between selling the PlayStation 4 and the PlayStation 2, however. With the PS2, Sony sold the console at a loss and could only make money on disc-based software sales. With the PS4, which features a less esoteric internal design, Sony is making a little money on the hardware already and has far more potential revenue streams from PlayStation Network. Its PlayStation Plus subscription service, which is now required to play games online, is one example. More software titles themselves are bought through the digital storefront these days, along with their potentially lucrative downloadable content. And although both are far from proven, further growth could come from nascent initiatives like PlayStation Vue and PlayStation Now.\nUltimately, it doesn\u2019t matter all that much how many PlayStation 4 consoles Sony can sell. What matters is who it sells them to: ideally dedicated, repeat consumers that will continue to spend throughout the lifecycle of the system. That\u2019s why the PS4\u2019s explicit focus on gamers was so perfectly calculated; Microsoft may have lost some of its best customers with its blunders that ensured the Xbox One conversation revolved around price, DRM, and TV features that no-one wanted. The PS4 isn\u2019t a particularly ambitious or original device, but it\u2019s a very well-conceived one.\nSo yes, Sony should focus on PlayStation. It should make the PS4 as good at serving its gamer niche as it possibly can. It should continue fostering good relationships with indie developers so that when the next Minecraft comes along, it\u2019ll be on a Sony platform. And it should cut away \u2014 or at least spin off \u2014 all the chaff. There are things worth keeping around, of course \u2014 the impressive Alpha camera line has clear synergy with the profitable image sensor division, for example, and Sony\u2019s recent efforts to engender a more fluid, grassroots approach to product development could well pay dividends in the long run. But right now, Sony has no business being in the mobile business, or the TV business, or much of the consumer electronics business.\nOnly Sony has the PlayStation\nContinuing to concentrate on phones and other products actually makes the PlayStation experience worse for most people. Take the PS4\u2019s ability to stream games to mobile devices \u2014 a killer feature needlessly limited to the PS Vita and Sony\u2019s Xperia Android line. Why can\u2019t I play Destiny on my iPad when the TV\u2019s occupied? The iOS PlayStation app, meanwhile, is a confusing mess that hasn\u2019t even been updated for the iPhone 6. These sound like minor points, but imagine what Sony could do if everyone at the company were focused on making its most important product as good as possible. As Microsoft is learning with its recent iOS and Android experiments, you have to serve the customers where they already are.\nIt\u2019s sad to reduce Sony\u2019s glittering consumer electronics history down to one device, but it could be worse. Toshiba doesn\u2019t have a PlayStation. Sharp doesn\u2019t have a PlayStation. Even Samsung doesn\u2019t have a PlayStation. Only Sony has the PlayStation, and that means it has one of the most potent brands and valuable platforms in the world. It\u2019s time to make the most of it.\n","Title":"The PlayStation Company: why Sony should ditch almost everything else | The Verge","Tags":["gaming","report","business","tech"]}