{"Main text":"The best wireless headphones you can buy\nListen to the music, feel the freedom\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nWireless headphones are awesome. Of all the gadgets I use on a daily basis, they are the ones that make me most feel like I\u2019m living in the near future. That may sound like hyperbole, but putting on headphones and having music pump directly into my ears without any cables getting in the way is just a great experience.\nI don\u2019t have to worry about my bag yanking them from my head every time I take them off. I don\u2019t have to worry about threading the cable through my coat before leaving the house on a cold day. And I don\u2019t have to worry about causing a major catastrophe if I get up from my desk and forget to take them off my head. It\u2019s the freedom and convenience of wireless headphones that draws me and many others to them.\nThere are a lot of wireless headphones on the market, at all kinds of prices. For this guide, we focused on the on-ear and over-ear style, which offer the best performance in terms of sound quality, comfort, and battery life. If you\u2019re looking for something to wear at the gym, you\u2019ll want wireless in-ear headphones \u2014 we\u2019ll get to those later.\nThe best wireless headphones get four important things right: they reliably connect to your phone, they are comfortable to wear for long stretches, they are compact enough to slip into most any bag, and most importantly, they sound nearly as good as wired headphones. Audiophiles aren\u2019t likely to approve of the sound quality from even the best wireless headphones because a Bluetooth connection will (probably) never be as good as a wired one, but for the rest of us listening to music on our phones, they can be fantastic. Some even offer noise cancellation that blocks virtually all outside noise, making that cross country flight with a screaming baby much more pleasant. Good wireless headphones should also be able to last for a long time between charges \u2014 nobody wants to charge their headphones as often as they charge their smartphone.\nShot on location at WeWork . Also available on YouTube.\nThe Winner\nSennheiser MM 550-X\nOut of all the headphones we tested, only one model stood out: Sennheiser's MM 550-X. The MM 550-X are an over-ear style (meaning they fully enclose your ears) and connect to smartphones or laptops via Bluetooth. They have a reliable wireless connection, they're comfortable to wear for hours at a time, they have an effective noise cancellation system, and can fold up into a remarkably small size for packing in my bag.\nThe Sennheisers have great sound, too. It's balanced, without favoring too much bass or treble, but still clear, loud, and suitable for all kinds of music or vocal recordings. There are media controls on the right earcup, as well as controls for the noise cancellation and Bluetooth systems. The MM 550-X are rated for up to 20 hours of use between charges, and I was able to use them on a long commute for multiple days in a row without having to charge them up. They also let you swap the battery, something very few other wireless headphones offer.\nThe MM 550-X aren't the best looking headphones you can buy. In fact, they look pretty goofy on most people. They have a retro '90s style that has been copied countless times, so it's hard to tell that they are premium headphones just by looking at them. But they certainly are premium, sitting at the top of the price range of the headphones we considered for this review. They don't feel cheap either \u2014 it's mostly just a looks issue here.\nIf sound quality, comfort, and performance are what you're looking for in a wireless headphone, then the MM 550-X are tough to beat. But if you don't want to fork over the funds for their premium price or just aren't a fan of their aesthetic, you should take a look at our runner-up pick.\nThe Runner-Up\nBose SoundLink On-Ear\nBose's new SoundLink headphones are an on-ear style, meaning they're smaller than the Sennheisers and sit on top of your ears. Many people find on-ear headphones to be uncomfortable because they put too much pressure on their ears, but the SoundLinks are unlike other on-ear headphones. They have super soft, pillowy earcups and a generously-sized headband. In fact, they are the most comfortable headphones I've ever worn, on-ear or over-ear.\nThe SoundLinks aren't just good for their comfort: they also have a great sound that's perhaps just a bit more bassy than the Sennheisers. They are very light, they fold up into a very small size, and they last 15 hours between charges. They also have voice-guided directions for pairing your phone, plus an on-off toggle switch that's a lot easier to use than the \"push for an unspecified amount of time\" power buttons on most other headphones.\nMy only real complaints with the SoundLinks are the lack of active noise cancellation, which isn't a huge surprise given their lower price, and a weaker Bluetooth radio than the Sennheisers. I noticed more Bluetooth interference and audio drops while wearing the SoundLinks than with other headphones, but it didn't happen enough to make it a huge problem. The SoundLinks aren't the best wireless headphones, but they are a very strong runner-up.\nThe Others\n","Title":"The best wireless headphones you can buy | The Verge","Tags":["review","tech","this-is-my-next"]}