{"Main text":"The best tablet you can buy\nWelcome to the post-PC era\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nSince the introduction of the first iPad in 2010, tablets have taken off faster than any other piece of technology in recent history. A good tablet is little more than just a screen, and that screen has found incredible and varying use cases. Some people like to use tablets as their only computers. For others, they are secondary devices that complement a smartphone and laptop. There are plenty of specialized use cases, too. We\u2019ve barely scratched the surface of what we can do with tablets, but we know that they are great for everyone for at least a few things: watching video, playing games, cruising through an overloaded inbox, and reading for hours.\nA good tablet should be lightweight and fast. It should have lots of apps available, and be easy to use. It should also easily last through a day of heavy use, or multiple days of lighter usage. I bring a tablet with me on almost every flight I take \u2014 if it can\u2019t last from the time I board to the time I step off at my destination on the other side of the country, it\u2019s failed. (Luckily that last one is rarely a real issue.)\nA good tablet also has a strong ecosystem of accessories available to it \u2014 everything from keyboard cases to styluses to stands that let me get more use out of the device. You should also have the option to get the tablet with either just Wi-Fi connectivity or integrated LTE. I prefer LTE myself, since it makes the tablet far more useful when traveling, but those looking to save a few bucks can go with a Wi-Fi tablet and still have a great experience.\nThere are countless tablets available for purchase today, and we\u2019ve surveyed all of the models you might come across in your local electronics store or on Amazon\u2019s virtual shelves. There\u2019s one clear winner, which deserves your money over all the rest.\nShot on location at WeWork . Also available on YouTube.\nThe Winner\nApple iPad Air 2\nApple\u2019s iPad Air 2 is the best tablet for most people. The Air 2 is extremely well-built, exceptionally thin and lightweight, and is blazing fast. Its battery easily lasts multiple days, its processor is very fast, and its high-resolution display is excellent. The screen is the single most important part of a tablet, and the Air 2\u2019s is great for reading, while vibrant and colorful enough for video. There\u2019s really nothing to complain about when it comes to the Air 2\u2019s hardware.\nOne of the biggest advantages that the iPad Air 2 has is the wealth of apps available for it in Apple\u2019s iTunes App Store. A tablet is only as good as what you can do with it, and thanks to the hundreds of thousands of apps for the Air 2, you can do more with it than any other tablet. There are also countless games available for the iPad Air 2 \u2014 far more than any competing mobile platform. There are puzzle games, adventure games, strategy games, intense 3D action, and racing games. And since the Air 2 runs iOS, one of the easiest-to-understand computing platforms available, virtually anyone can pick one up and grasp how to use it quickly.\nIn addition to great hardware and lots of apps, the Air 2 also has the strongest ecosystem of accessories available to it. These are what enable more, and more specific, uses for your tablet. There are keyboard cases to make it easier to type long emails or documents, styluses to draw or write on the display, rugged cases to protect the tablet from abuse in extreme situations or the slippery hands of young children, stands to prop it up on your desk or next to a monitor, and much more. But you shouldn\u2019t feel compelled to run out and spend a lot of money on accessories for your Air 2 right after you buy it \u2014 the core iPad experience is really good right out of the box.\nThe Air 2 has pretty much everything you could want from a tablet: it\u2019s fast, well-built, lightweight, and has a ton of apps. It is a little large for long reading sessions or using on the go, though, so if you\u2019re looking for something smaller, you should consider our runner-up pick.\nThe Runner Up\nApple iPad mini 2\nIf you find the iPad Air 2 just too large for your needs, or you\u2019re looking to get most of the same experience while saving a considerable amount of cash, the iPad mini 2 is the tablet you should get. It has a very similar design, same software, same screen resolution, and access to the same apps as the larger Air. It\u2019s just smaller \u2014 7.9 inches as opposed to 9.7 \u2014 and slightly lighter, making it easier to hold in one hand or slip into your bag as you walk out the door.\nThe mini 2 excels as a reading device and is great for consuming all sorts of digital content. I find myself on trains and planes all the time and my iPad mini 2 is a constant companion, letting me catch up on my endless Pocket queue in between bursts of email and tweets. It\u2019s not as engrossing as the Air 2 for watching video or playing games, but that\u2019s to be expected given its smaller display.\nThere are a lot of accessories available for the mini, but not quite as many as there are for the Air. And not all of them work as well: while a keyboard case for the Air can provide a pretty acceptable typing experience, the smaller counterparts for the mini range from difficult-to-type-on to downright maddening. The Air is the best tablet computer, but the mini is definitely the best option if you want a tablet for reading that easily can be tossed in your bag.\nI\u2019m not recommending people get the iPad mini 3, which is actually newer than the mini 2. It\u2019s more expensive, but only offers a Touch ID fingerprint sensor and a gold color option over the mini 2, and neither of those things are worth the price premium you\u2019ll spend for the mini 3.\nThe Others\n","Title":"The best tablet you can buy | The Verge","Tags":["apple","microsoft","google","review","tech","this-is-my-next\",\"Story Streams\"","\"5691344"]}