{"Main text":"271 Comments\nWelcome to the first annual Verge Hack Week. We're totally blowing up our site: we've given our reporters and editors the entire week to play with new tools and experiment with new storytelling ideas, while members of our amazing product team have gathered in New York to help build all sorts of interesting new things. Learn more.\nThere's a debate raging at The Verge, and we need your help. One of The Verge's video producers, Nathan Cykiert, thinks 1994 was the best year in film, whereas reporter Arielle Duhaime-Ross is adamant that 1993 was the most epic year of all. It's a close call \u2014 one year had Mrs. Doubtfire and Jurassic Park, while the other featured The Lion King and Shawshank Redemption \u2014 but it's not so close that a web-wide poll can't settle the argument once and for all. Hear their cases and vote below!\nThe Case for 1993 The Case for 1994\nBy Arielle Duhaime-Ross\nWhen in doubt, turn to 1993. It was, by far, the best year in film. John Williams redefined the musical score in Schindler\u2019s List that year and Spielberg won his first Oscar for Best Director. Tom Hanks delivered what is arguably one of his most powerful performances in Philadelphia and Bruce Springsteen\u2019s song for the movie still makes us cry. Harrison Ford made our hearts leap as he jumped off the ledge of a storm drain into raging water in The Fugitive. And Willy the whale made countless children weep as he, too, took the most important leap of his life in the name of freedom. It was a golden year in film. But 1993 didn\u2019t just bring us the action and drama we were craving \u2014 it also brought the funny.\nThat year, we got to see Whoopi Goldberg struggle up a deserted corridor after her students glued her butt to a chair. We smoked up and dissected the patriarchy underlying Gilligan\u2019s Island in Dazed and Confused. We heard the Chicago Cubs\u2019 pitching coach, Brickma, explain the concept of \"hot ice\" to a confused rookie named Henry Rowengartner. And we giggled as Jack Skellington tried to get the inhabitants of Halloween Town to do Christmas right.\nClearly, 1993 had everything a kid, teenager, or adult could ever ask for \u2014 even Robin Williams in drag. Heck, if it wasn\u2019t for The Sandlot, an entire generation of kids would never have known that Babe Ruth was also nicknamed \"The Great Bambino.\" For that alone, we should be thankful.\nBy Nathan Cykiert\nThere\u2019s no arguing that 1994 was the best year for film. While it may have not had the strongest start (then again, what year does?), the second half of the year truly blossomed into an eclectic mix of highway bus chases, mobster musicals, and a pregnant Arnold Schwarzenegger. 1994 brought so much diversity to theaters with the perfect balance of genres. On one hand, 90\u2019s kids were gifted The Lion King, Angels in the Outfield, and The Little Rascals to name a few, while blockbusters like True Lies and Speed have gone on to become quintessential action films. Even the award winners have stood the test of time and continue to play weekly on cable television (Side note - The Shawshank Redemption was robbed at the Oscars when Forrest Gump won best picture).\nAnd then there\u2019s Jim Carrey. There was no greater comedic actor in the 1990\u2019s than Jim Carrey and this was the year he became a megastar. While not exactly a critical darling, Ace Ventura: Pet Detective has become one of Carrey\u2019s most notable characters and kicked off his hat trick year in film. The Mask followed in July and also introduced audiences to 22-year-old Cameron Diaz. Carrey finished off the year with Dumb and Dumber which is hands down one of the funniest films of all time.\nSimply put, 1994 had something for everyone. Did I mention pregnant Arnold Schwarzenegger already?\nEd. Note: Nathan somehow didn't mention the best film to come out of Hollywood in 1994: Pulp Fiction. He will be dealt with. Harshly. - Dieter\n","Title":"The greatest film debate of our generation: 1993 or 1994? | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}