{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nLet's all be honest: the new James Bond film Spectre is proving to be one of the needier movies in recent memory. That's no small feat considering we live in a world where teaser trailers, and teasers for teaser trailers, and Vine teasers for the teasing of trailers are actually, you know, a thing. But to its credit, Spectre has managed to take the crown, besting all others in its never-ending hunt for attention. (Personally, I think it won with the  teaser for the teaser poster \u2014 when the teaser poster ended up just being a  picture of Daniel Craig . You know, the guy that we've already seen play Bond. In three separate movies.)\nStill, here we are, and now it's time for Spectre to unveil the requisite teaser trailer. The funny thing? It's actually cool! It's full of foreboding without giving anything away, and it makes me want to see James Bond do James Bondian things! And apparently he'll have plenty of opportunity, because according to the official synopsis for the movie \"a cryptic message from Bond\u2019s past sends him on a trail to uncover a sinister organization. While M battles political forces to keep the secret service alive, Bond peels back the layers of deceit to reveal the terrible truth behind Spectre.\"\nAt this point the movie still has the promise and intrigue of surprises to come\nThat sounds cool, right? At this stage, we're excited! We can't wait to see what happens next! The movie has the thrill of being full of surprises and intrigue and things we're not expecting (and it's even directed by Sam Mendes, who did a pretty great job with Skyfall). But there's the rub: By the time Spectre actually comes out on November 6th, odds are most of it will be spoiled. Like we've seen happen  time and time and time again . Because when movies want people to really, really like them, they tend to show everything cool that they've got in store before you even have the chance to walk in the theater.\nBut I'm hoping Spectre proves me wrong. I'm hoping it holds onto the surprising restraint it's showing off in this teaser, and that when the movie itself arrives, I'll still be wowed. Awed, even.\nYou can do it, Spectre. I believe in you.\n","Title":"The teaser trailer for Spectre will get you excited without giving anything away | The Verge","Tags":["culture","tldr","entertainment","film"]}