{"Main text":"By Vlad Savov and Chris Ziegler on March  11, 2015 10:49 am\nThere's a great irony about the Geneva Motor Show. It's full of super expensive, scarcely attainable cars, but just getting there is enough to bankrupt you (now that the Swiss franc has shot up in value).\nStill, looking at all those shiny new motors doesn't cost anything, and my time spent inside the Palexpo venue was indeed a visual delight. Hell, even before I could walk in, there was a big, bright yellow Mercedes 4x4 stood atop a massive vertical platform showing off its...\nThe biggest automakers bring their baddest cars to the heart of Europe\nUpdate\nFerrari vs. Lambo: who won the Geneva beauty contest?\nBy Vlad Savov on March   5, 2015 06:38 pm\nYou don't have to be a gearhead to appreciate the beauty and timeless elegance of Italian car design. Whether it's Alfa Romeo, Ferrari, Maserati, Lamborghini, or even Fiat with its diminutive 500, there's a flair and a flamboyance to this nation's vehicles that is rarely surpassed by others. This year's Geneva Motor Show kept up that legacy with the official introduction of two mid-engine supercars from the two racing heavyweights.\nIn the red corner is Ferrari's 488 GTB , a smooth, curvaceous...\nThis isn't going to be an easy decision\nUpdate\nUp close with Lamborghini's even faster Aventador Superveloce\nBy Vlad Savov on March   5, 2015 07:03 am\nYou'd think triangles and hexagons would be tired by now. Every gaming PC manufacturer has by now ripped off Lamborghini's violently sharp lines and exaggerated air intakes. The Lambo has become a cliché of design by virtue of how often and how widely it has been copied. And yet, seeing the real thing in its carbon fiber flesh is still a uniquely thrilling experience.\nIt's a Lambo with an extra shot of testosterone\nUpdate\nThe Quant F is an electric supercar powered by quixotic ambition\nBy Vlad Savov on March   5, 2015 04:22 am\nUnveiled at the 2015 Geneva Motor Show, the Quant F is an electric car with a difference. It draws its energy from two tanks of differently ionized liquids, relying on the chemical reaction between them to power an electric motor system capable of reaching speeds in excess of 300kmh. These so-called flow cell batteries are so critical to the operation and purpose of the Quant F that they make up the name of its maker: nanoFlowcell AG.\n0-100kmh in 2.8 seconds is very nice, but where do you go to refuel?\nUpdate\nUp close with Ferrari's latest supercar, the 488 GTB\nBy Vlad Savov on March   4, 2015 05:43 pm\nThe Ferrari 488 GTB is predictable. More power, more speed, more aggressive lines, and even more curves. It's a flowing, organic, aerodynamic shape that seems to have been hewn from some scarlet-red meteor landed near Maranello. It goes from 0 to 100kmh in 3 seconds flat. It has a track-ready 0.06-second response time to the accelerator. Predictable, yes. But boring? Never.\nEven the sound of the doors has been engineered for maximum sex appeal\nUpdate\nThe new Audi R8 looks the same as the old Audi R8, and that's okay\nBy Chris Ziegler on March   4, 2015 03:18 pm\nApart from fashion, I'm not sure that there's any industry that's as insatiably hungry for newness than the automotive world. It's a devastatingly design-focused business, endlessly devouring itself in the name of creating something unique, something you haven't seen before. Even the notoriously iterative smartphone market is cut more slack: Apple can effortlessly get away with slapping an \"S\" on an iPhone's name and using the body for another year. Cars are different. If you release a new...\nCan Audi hit icon status with this design?\nUpdate\nAudi's R8 sports car now comes with an all-electric option\nBy Vlad Savov on March   4, 2015 10:52 am\nFor someone like me, an event like the Geneva Motor Show can be an alien experience. I'm an electronics geek, more accustomed to reviewing things that fit into pockets, but here I am gazing upon a show floor massed with four-wheeled gas guzzlers. That gap of familiarity is gradually being bridged, however, as carmakers embrace electric motors and produce more powerful and beautiful electric cars than ever before. There are more battery-powered headliners this year than ever, and one of them...\nElectric sports cars are catching up to their petrol-fuelled brethren fast\nUpdate\n","Title":"The fast, furious, and futuristic cars of the Geneva Motor Show 2015 | The Verge","Tags":["storystream","transportation"]}