{"Main text":"This could be the best-looking Android Wear smartwatch yet\nAnd it comes from an unlikely source: Huawei\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nIt looks like Huawei is taking smartwatches very seriously. As spotted by Droid Life , two official promo videos for the \"Huawei Watch\" have accidentally been set live on YouTube ahead of the device's likely announcement tomorrow at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain. Before the videos were released, the watch was pictured in an advertisement at Barcelona's El Prat airport.\nFrom what we've seen so far, the company has made a very attractive smartwatch. The metal watch has a circular face like the Moto 360. Unlike that device, however, it has an entirely circular display that measures 42mm in diameter. One of the promotional videos reveals that the device has a sapphire display and a stainless steel unibody casing. There is also a digital crown that will bring the display back to the home watchface. It will come in at least three different finishes \u2014 silver, gold, and black \u2014 and the company promises there will be a wide array of straps. The video shows everything from a traditional bracelet to leather straps of varying widths. The company has also designed a number of very traditional watch faces for the Android Wear device.\nWe don't yet know the full specifications for the Android Wear smartwatch, but the video does reveal that the bottom of the watch includes a heart-rate monitor and full fitness tracking. Of course, no word yet on the battery life or screen resolution, but we're excited to learn more \u2014 one of the best looking smartwatches yet has come from an unlikely source. Check out the images below (pulled from the promo videos) for more.\nUpdate: Huawei has officially announced its new smartwatch at MWC in Barcelona. It has a 286 ppi, 1.4-inch AMOLED touchscreen and includes a heart rate monitor, 4GB of memory, 512MB of RAM, a 6-axis motion sensor, and a Qualcomm 1.2GHz CPU.\nHint: Use the 's' and 'd' keys to navigate\n","Title":"This could be the best-looking Android Wear smartwatch yet | The Verge","Tags":["google","photo-essay","tech","mwc-2015"]}