{"Main text":"Under Armour takes on Nike with UA Record, an app for fitness junkies\nFor Android and iOS \u2014 and Gisele likes it!\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nNike and Under Armour. Under Armour and Nike. The two companies' battle for supremacy among the lucrative group of people who want to get fit and look awesome doing so extends to every corner of the market. Nike's Running and Training apps have long been an advantage for The Swoosh, but this week Under Armour took a big step forward. It announced the UA Record app, which takes the best of MapMyFitness (the company it bought in 2013) and the previous Under Armour Women app, and meshes it all into one beautiful app for all things fitness. ( Gisele likes it !) It also announced that HTC will be developing hardware for the platform, though there are no details on that front.\nThe app is more or less the same as what you'd expect from Under Armour \u2014 or Nike, for that matter. There's a dashboard with a running feed of all your activity, which Record collects from your fitness tracker (most of the big names are supported) or from your iPhone's internal motion tracker. You can challenge your friends, see what your friends are up to, and track everything from food to sleep to calories burned. Oh, and there's a big tab for you to buy Under Armour gear, in case the thing keeping you from being your fittest self is some Undeniable Mid Crew Socks.\nCombining hardware and software didn't work for Nike but it might for UA\nA quick run through the app shows a lot of charts and graphs, a lot of pictures of burly bros doing tricep curls, and constant exhortations to get myself in better shape. The app works well and looks good, and if you're inclined to switch it should be easy to start dumping your data into Record right away. I don't know how many people it will make switch from whatever app they're using, but it's a solid start for Under Armour \u2013 and if it can work with HTC to build great hardware, which Nike has left behind, it might build a solid niche for itself.\n","Title":"Under Armour takes on Nike with UA Record, an app for fitness junkies | The Verge","Tags":["tech","ces-2015"]}