{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nResearchers from MIT Media Lab have created a  miniaturized trackpad that fits onto the user's thumbnail and can wirelessly control smartphones, laptops, and wearables. The tiny device \u2014 called the NailO \u2014 manages to cram a battery, a Bluetooth radio, multiple processors, and a capacitive trackpad into its flexible form factor. Its creators say it could be used for controlling technology when someone's hands are full; to augment traditional interfaces (for example, toggling between letters and emoji while texting); or to give people a way of unobtrusively fielding messages and phone calls in social situations.\nThe NailO can be a controller for smartphones. ( MIT Media Lab )\nOr it can be used when someone's hands are full. ( MIT Media Lab )\nIt can be a discrete controller for wearable devices. ( MIT Media Lab )\nIn addition to making the NailO easily accessible and relatively discrete, the location of the device means users will never be sore or uncomfortable from wearing it, as there are no nerve endings in the thumbnail. Currently, the NailO has a battery life of just two hours, but its creators, MIT graduate students Cindy Hsin-Liu Kao and Artem Dementyev, say  this could be improved with a sleep mode. They found that in tests, a surface press of two to three seconds to wake the NailO was enough to make sure it wasn't activated accidentally.\na commercial version of the NailO would have swappable faceplates\nKao and Dementyev say that a commercial version of the NailO would not only have better battery life and a slimmer case, but could also be a fashion item, with detachable faceplates letting users customize the device's look. Kao says that the original inspiration for the NailO came from disposable nail art stickers that are popular in parts of Asia. \"It\u2019s very unobtrusive,\u201D Kao  told MIT News . \u201CWhen I put this on, it becomes part of my body. I have the power to take it off, so it still gives you control over it. But it allows this very close connection to your body.\u201D\n","Title":"Using this thumbnail trackpad is like playing the world\u2019s smallest violin | The Verge","Tags":["tech"]}