{"Main text":"Valve is letting money spoil the fun of Dota 2\nThe free-to-play game now has a pay-to-win element\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nBy this point, Dota 2 should need no introduction. Valve\u2019s most popular game now attracts 10 million players every month , and this past weekend it became the first Steam title to surpass the milestone of having over a million concurrent users . Just as it reaches this new peak in popularity, however, Dota 2 is hitting a new low with its most ardent fans as server issues have plagued Valve\u2019s introduction of the New Bloom Festival update. But server issues come and go; what's much worse is the addition of a new Year Beast Brawl game mode that lets players purchase a competitive advantage in the game.\nOne of the sacrosanct principles of Dota 2 is that the whole game is free to play. Unlike some mobile games that are free to download but then force players into making in-app purchases to progress, a player can experience the full length and breadth of Dota without spending a dime. What\u2019s problematic about the new game mode \u2014 even though it\u2019s just a temporary one to mark celebrations of the Chinese New Year \u2014 is that buying trinkets outside the game can now have a real and pronounced effect on the competitive balance inside it. In other words, the free-to-play game now has a pay-to-win element.\nI am not happy about this.\nIn 2014, Valve marked the Chinese New Year with the addition of what was essentially a dragon-slaying mini game. Players teamed up in groups of five and tried to defeat an unfathomably large and powerful Year Beast. This time around, the Year Beasts are smaller and less overwhelming, and they\u2019ve been inserted into the basic 5-on-5 game mode. A Year Beast Brawl sees each team pick up a monster as an ally, and its abilities can be upgraded with ability points. Those points are gained by winning Brawls or \u2014 and this is where things turn sour \u2014 through purchases of a special $34.99 Arcane Bundle. Points can also be bought in batches of 1,000 for $2.49 or 2,400 for $4.99.\nIt should be play to win, not pay to win\nWhat happens when one team spends lavishly on its Year Beast and the other doesn\u2019t? Terrible, unbalanced gameplay. Last night I \"won\" a 12-minute game of Dota where my allies escorted our seriously beefed-up creature down one lane, sieging and destroying all of the enemy towers in rapid succession. Even the most lopsided game of regular Dota takes at least 20 minutes before heroes are powerful enough to start wrecking architecture, but a Year Beast with enough financial backing can obliterate the opposition in half the time.\nI don\u2019t think anybody plays Dota 2 just to win. The thrill of this game comes from competing against others in an incredibly complex, yet wonderfully balanced contest. Sure, Dota has a litany of small gameplay quirks, but they are available for everyone to exploit and the playing field is even for all. The first time a Year Beast called down lightning to smite me from above, I lost that sense of fairness. His owner didn\u2019t outsmart or outmaneuver me. He outspent me.\nDota 2 is like The Sims in that it makes most of the revenue for its publisher through the sale of cosmetic augmentations for your character and other optional extras. Unlike The Sims, however, Dota has never made the free player feel punished for not spending. Now that Valve is selling vouchers that can be turned into in-game steroids by the willing consumer, that important distinction for Dota is under threat. Valve appears comfortable with letting people buy success, and what\u2019s worse, it\u2019s aggressively pushing every player into it.\nThe New Bloom Festival has taken over my loading screen and is the first thing I see once inside Dota\u2019s matchmaking menu. Year Beast Brawls occur at random times during the day, but when they\u2019re active, I can\u2019t play a regular unranked match that doesn\u2019t include them \u2014 so even though it\u2019s an additive game mode, it actually prevents me from finding the game I wish to play.\nUntil now, Valve has been exemplary in the way it\u2019s balanced commercial considerations with an inclusive experience that doesn\u2019t leave anyone out. This is how a 15-year-old Pakistani kid by the name of Sumail Syed can become a Dota 2 champion and collect his share of a $1 million team prize. An even playing field is also the basis for Valve\u2019s self-produced Dota documentary, which is not accidentally titled Free To Play .\nA small step in the wrong direction is still a bad move\nBecause Valve has been a leader, because the present in-game economies of Dota 2 and Team Fortress 2 are role models to be studied and emulated, I can\u2019t let this pay-to-win dynamic go by without expressing my disapproval. It\u2019s only a small step, but if it\u2019s headed in the wrong direction, it shouldn\u2019t be taken at all. FC Barcelona once regarded its team jersey as too sacred to feature the name of a sponsor, but after initially adding the Unicef logo to its front, it has now moved on to having commercial sponsorships from Qatar Airways on the outside and  Intel on the inside . I don\u2019t want to see the popularity of Dota's new game mode \u2014 which can be a fun diversification when the teams happen to be balanced \u2014 being used to validate the accompanying business model.\nLeave the buying of success for the real world. Dota 2 is played out in a setting of high fantasy, and one of the fantasies I want to continue believing in is that the best team wins. By March 2nd, the New Bloom Festival will be over and, if Valve heeds the disappointment of its fans , the option to buy in-game augmentations will be gone with it.\n","Title":"Valve is letting money spoil the fun of Dota 2 | The Verge","Tags":["gaming","culture","entertainment","essay"]}