{"Main text":"Why Sony Pictures should release The Interview online\nNot even North Korea can stop the internet\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nAfter the publishing of this article, all major US movie theater chains announced they would not be showing The Interview . The internet is not just the best option - now it\u2019s the only one.\nThe dominoes fell swiftly Tuesday. The group behind the massive Sony hacks released another cache of confidential information, threatening violence against movie theaters that dare play the Seth Rogen and James Franco comedy The Interview. Soon both actors canceled the rest of their promotional appearances for the film, and Sony told theater chains that it \"wouldn\u2019t object\" if they chose to drop the film due to safety concerns. Carmike Cinemas was the first company to take Sony up on its offer, with Landmark Theatres calling off the movie\u2019s New York premiere hours later.\nAs an event, it\u2019s unprecedented: a cyberattack has rocked a major corporation in the most public of ways, and is now dictating the release of a major motion picture in the United States. And yet the studio still has one card tucked in its back pocket.\nSony should release The Interview online. Right now.\nThreats of violence can't be taken lightly by theater owners\nAlmost from the beginning the hacks have been about stopping people from seeing the movie. It\u2019s such a bizarre tactic that if the stakes were lower you\u2019d almost think it was an elaborate PR stunt \u2014 the kind of thing that would fit right in with a story about a TV personality recruited to kill the leader of North Korea. But threats of physical violence can\u2019t be taken lightly, not by theater owners worried about legal liabilities nor by Sony Pictures itself. This is a post-9\/11, post-Aurora America, and frankly a movie premiere being attacked doesn\u2019t sound all that implausible. So while it\u2019s tempting to flip a jingoistic middle finger and chant \"We won\u2019t let the terrorists win!\" the realities of huge corporations looking out for their own best interests is another matter.\nDoes it smack of censorship and impinging of free speech? Absolutely \u2014 though what it feels like most is the conservative choice. Hollywood loves a safe bet, and Sony making the passive move to let theaters opt out at their leisure is as safe as it gets, no matter what creative voices get stifled. Of course, the film industry has always been more about business than it has been about creative expression anyway, and in that sense The Interview can simply be framed as fallout from a bad business decision: Sony Pictures decided to make a movie about killing a real-world dictator, and is suffering immeasurably as a result.\nEvery living room, computer, and phone can be a movie theater\nBut it\u2019s foolish for anybody \u2014 even the hackers themselves \u2014 to think that The Interview will simply disappear, or that a movie\u2019s life begins and ends at your local multiplex. Things leak. They spread. A version of Kim Jong-un\u2019s death scene is already out in the wild. So what Sony should really do is take the game online. Throw the movie up on iTunes and Amazon . Get crazy and give Crackle a shot. Take the threat of attacking theaters and diffuse it with the truth that the hackers don\u2019t seem to understand: we live in a world where every living room, every computer, and every phone is a theater. And whether it\u2019s leaked government documents or a goofy comedy from the Neighbors guy, nothing stays hidden for long.\nWould it open Sony up to having additional emails leaked? Would it open up content providers to potentially adding their names to the hackers' hitlist? Potentially, and we certainly don\u2019t know what other personal threats have been made directly to the heads of Sony Pictures. But anyone expecting the leaks to stop at this point hasn\u2019t been paying attention, and as long as the movie is kept under wraps there\u2019s that dangling, implied threat: don\u2019t show it or else. Releasing the movie online would allow the company to take a principled stand against its attackers and shatter that tension.\nReleasing it for free would bring a bonanza of good will\nReleasing it for free would bring a bonanza of good will at a time when the studio needs it, but charging could be an even stronger choice, serving as a bold experiment in day-and-date video-on-demand releases. For years studios, theaters, and VOD services have butted heads over narrowing theatrical windows and release strategies: theaters want to have movies longer, while studios want to start collecting that VOD money as soon as possible. With many theaters already dropping out, why not take the most dangerous studio movie in the world and let audiences decide what they prefer? Make it a premium rental, even; I\u2019d certainly pony up to see The Interview from the comfort of my home, even if it just turns out to be the goofy bro-com it appears to be.\nThis is a scenario unlike anything we\u2019ve ever seen before, and Sony Pictures is at a unique point in history. As theater chain stocks dipped Tuesday, the hacks began to look more like true economic terrorism \u2014 impacting an entire industry, not just a lone company. TV shows and movies will undoubtedly stay away from portraying North Korea in a negative light moving forward, the chilling effect that this kind of strong-arming leads to. And what happens between now and Christmas Day, when the film is (still) scheduled for release, will establish a precedent that sets the tone for years to come.\nThe hackers, whomever they may be, have used the internet to attack Sony Pictures. They\u2019ve used it to intimidate Sony Pictures. Now Sony can use that same internet to fight back and spread The Interview across the world.\nPut it online.\n","Title":"Why Sony Pictures should release The Interview online | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment","essay\",\"Story Streams\"","\"7116622"]}