{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nIt\u2019s only been a few months since Microsoft officially unveiled some of the features we can expect in Windows 10 to the world, but the software giant is now ready to talk specifics. On Wednesday, Microsoft is holding a special Windows 10 event at its company\u2019s headquarters in Redmond, Washington. While we got an early look at the Windows 10 user interface in late September, Wednesday\u2019s event will be a chance for the company to detail how Windows 10 will run across PCs, phones, tablets, and even its Xbox One gaming console.\nWe'll be covering the event on the ground with a Windows 10 live blog , hands-on videos, Microsoft's livestream, and much more. Check in at 9AM PT \/ 12PM ET on Wednesday, January 21st to watch it all go down.\nIn the meantime, here\u2019s what to expect from Windows 10.\nWindows 10 desktop\nMicrosoft may have  shown off the new Start Menu and some various feature additions for power users back in September, but there\u2019s plenty more the company is working on. Wednesday\u2019s event is billed as a consumer-focused one, so we\u2019re expecting to get a closer look at how Windows 10 will power laptops, desktops, and gaming PCs in 2015 and beyond.  Various leaks of Cortana , Microsoft\u2019s digital assistant, have surfaced in recent weeks as part of early Windows 10 builds, and it\u2019s highly likely the company will officially acknowledge the addition. Cortana in Windows 10 will act as the primary search interface, as well as some smart integration in the browser and other applications.\nElsewhere, Microsoft has not yet shown off its new user interface for Windows 10. While some  recently leaked builds have hinted at a dark theme that closely matches Windows Phone, we expect Microsoft to show off some of the UI it\u2019s working towards. This will include refreshed icons throughout the desktop, optional dark and light themes, a tweaked taskbar that makes use of accent colors, and some improvements to the style of universal applications.\nA single store and cross-platform apps\nSpeaking of universal applications, Wednesday is Microsoft\u2019s biggest chance to show the world why you would want a single app that can run across a phone, tablet, PC, and TV. Microsoft will detail that story more heavily at its Build developer conference in April, but examples of powerful universal apps will be key to the company\u2019s vision for the future of software. Microsoft will also focus heavily on the single Store experience of Windows 10, which allows end users to buy a single app across phone, tablet, and PC, and for developers to more easily create just one application for one app store.\nOneDrive will also feature heavily in Windows 10, and Microsoft is looking to extend its capabilities even further. The software maker may detail its plans to let app developers store settings and sync app data through OneDrive across PCs, phones, and tablets, allowing apps to always stay up-to-date across multiple platforms.\nMicrosoft will also further detail its \"Continuum\" interface for 2-in-1 laptops and convertible tablets . We got an early glimpse at a concept of Continuum in September, and the feature should allow laptops to be used easily with a keyboard and trackpad, while converting them or using touch will trigger a finger-friendly mode that adapts naturally. This mode will be particularly interesting for devices like the Surface Pro 3 or Lenovo\u2019s Yoga laptops that can be used in multiple ways, including pen-based input.\nIt's time for a better windows on phones and tablets\nWindows 10 mobile\nMicrosoft is building a single version of Windows that will run across tablets and phones. Codenamed Windows Mobile \u2014 the same name Microsoft used for its mobile software before Windows Phone \u2014 the combination of Windows RT and Windows Phone will be the most interesting part of Wednesday\u2019s event. Microsoft is dropping the confusing desktop mode it kept with Windows RT and replacing it with a single touch interface that will run on tablets and phones powered by ARM-based processors. It\u2019s likely that Microsoft will choose to name this particular version of Windows 10, and many speculate it could be Windows 10 Mobile, Windows Mobile, or just Windows 10 \/ Windows. Given the huge differences compared to the regular version of Windows, it\u2019s probably time Microsoft dropped the Windows name for its mobile efforts, but it\u2019s highly unlikely the company will do that. Expect some kind of name, but hopefully not something like \" Windows Mobile 2015 for Pocket PC Professional Edition .\"\nIn terms of features, Microsoft has largely kept its plans secret here. Windows Phone and Windows RT have both struggled to make any significant impact against Android and iOS, so this could be viewed as Microsoft\u2019s final chance to make mobile work on its own platform. Expect to see tighter integration between the mobile variant of Windows 10 and its desktop counterpart, alongside some new UI changes that align the Live Tile style more closely between phone, tablet, and Xbox. Microsoft\u2019s Windows Phone team likes to ship features that are unique to its platform \u2014 think  Kid\u2019s Corner , Cortana, or  Driving Mode \u2014 and it\u2019s highly likely we\u2019ll see one or two big additions here. Given Microsoft\u2019s Office improvements on Android and iOS, the company will be keen to show its work on Windows. Office touch is closely aligned with Windows 10, so we assume that it will be integrated into the mobile version through a Store app, and we should get an even closer look at its features on Wednesday.\nMicrosoft is also planning to add some of its  Lumia Camera features into Windows Phone itself. The default camera app in Windows 10 will include a similar interface to that of the Lumia Camera, and Microsoft will likely show this and other app improvements on Wednesday. Some of the  new Windows Phone gestures will also be built into Windows 10.\nAs Microsoft\u2019s mobile version of Windows 10 is likely to be a radical departure from Windows RT on the tablet side, all eyes will be on how the company manages an upgrade path for existing Surface RT and Surface 2 tablets. Microsoft\u2019s last major mobile shift saw Windows Phone 7 owners stuck on an outdated version of the OS once new hardware with Windows Phone 8 started shipping. That scenario could play out again for Windows RT tablet owners.\nXbox and PC gaming\nMicrosoft has a rather mixed history of PC gaming. Initiatives like Games for Windows Live failed miserably, and the company has never managed to transform its success with Xbox Live on the console over to traditional PC gaming. With Phil Spencer now in charge of Xbox and gaming at Microsoft, things are starting to look a lot better. Spencer  killed off the Kinect bundle , cut the  price of the Xbox One , and even helped  acquire Minecraft . His efforts on the console side have not gone unnoticed, but it\u2019s time PC gaming got some much-needed love from Microsoft.\nThat should be the main focus of Spencer\u2019s participation on Wednesday. While Microsoft can\u2019t match the power of Valve\u2019s Steam service, realizing the potential of cross-platform play and bringing Xbox Live to the PC in a way that makes sense could help, alongside an improved Store to access popular titles and indie games. Microsoft has long promised games that let you play on a phone, and then resume on a console or PC. Pitting Xbox One gamers against PC players in the same game could be an option, but Microsoft now has the infrastructure to enable true roaming games across phone, tablet, PC, and console. We're expecting to see some of that on Wednesday. Imagine playing Xbox One games on your Windows PC, or buying a single game that you can play on your PC or Xbox One and the game state syncs alongside achievements and Xbox Live integration. Wednesday could hold lots of possibilities for gamers, but a commitment to PC gaming will be a key part.\nIs a VR headset on the way?\nElsewhere, Microsoft still needs to explain its strategy for Xbox One apps and why it matters that the Xbox One runs Windows 10. We will see some details around this, and in particular how  DirectX 12 is key to the future of gaming across Windows and Xbox. Microsoft is also holding private sessions with developers on Thursday with topics including the \"Windows 10 roadmap for Xbox,\" so it's safe to assume we'll get a good look at future capabilities enabled by Windows 10.\nMicrosoft will also be participating in the Game Developers Conference in March and E3 in June, so don\u2019t expect all the details on the company's plans for Xbox One on Wednesday. Microsoft also continues to work on a VR headset, codenamed Project B, and it's possible we might see some hints or an early look at the company's progress with its new Xbox hardware on Wednesday. Microsoft may also detail its plans to bring  Xbox Live cross-platform to iOS and Android , but the Windows 10 event timing makes that unlikely.\nNew hardware\nWhile it\u2019s possible we might get an early look at an Xbox VR headset, Microsoft will also use its Windows 10 event to showcase some other hardware. We\u2019re expecting the company to unveil its new version of Perceptive Pixel, the large touchscreen displays that are powered by Windows. Microsoft has always pushed the idea of huge interactive displays, and its  vision of the future video from nearly two years ago envisioned a future where sensors and giant screens dominate. The next version of Perceptive Pixel could be where Kinect is revived, as Microsoft has been working to  integrate the technology into its large displays for a couple of years now. Expect to hear how this combines with Windows 10 with a large touchscreen designed for office workspaces.\nWe\u2019re not expecting any new Windows Phone hardware, but that doesn\u2019t mean Microsoft won\u2019t get a little creative.  The Information is reporting that Microsoft is planning to show a phone-laptop hybrid on Wednesday, and The Verge understands this will be part of the company\u2019s prototype demonstration of future Windows-powered hardware. Microsoft is keen to showcase how Windows can run across a variety of devices, but most of this will be for demonstration purposes. With Microsoft\u2019s focus on the internet of things, it\u2019s likely we\u2019ll see how Windows and Microsoft services can help power tiny devices of the future.\nIt's time to kill Internet Explorer\nA new Spartan browser\nMicrosoft is expected to unveil its  upcoming Internet Explorer replacement on Wednesday. Codenamed Spartan, the new browser is designed to be a lightweight replacement that includes more modern features and abilities. Spartan will have close Cortana integration, including the ability for the browser address bar to surface information on flights, deliveries, and more. Spartan is also expected to include improved browser extension support, allowing Windows 10\u2019s native browser to finally catch up with Firefox and Chrome. Microsoft has also been experimenting with allowing developers to easily port extensions from Chrome, and we might see some evidence of that work on Wednesday. Spartan is designed to work across Windows 10 on PCs, phones, and tablets, so expect to see a uniform design and features that work across all three.\nMicrosoft\u2019s naming of its upcoming Internet Explorer replacement could be a key announcement on Wednesday. If the company is ready to name the browser, then we expect the Internet Explorer name to disappear. While a traditional Internet Explorer will be available in Windows 10 for legacy and enterprise reasons, the majority of users will launch Spartan. This gives Microsoft a good opportunity to finally ditch the Internet Explorer name that\u2019s surrounded in hostility and legacy.\nMicrosoft\u2019s presentation begins Wednesday, January 21st at 12PM ET \/ 9AM PT. The Verge will be reporting from the event live, and you\u2019ll be able to follow along with us for all the news.\n","Title":"Windows 10 event: what to expect from today's announcement | The Verge","Tags":["microsoft","tech\",\"Story Streams\"","\"7630402"]}