{"Main text":"Yves Behar taught Samsung how to build a beautiful TV\nSamsung's new S9W is as much a piece of art as it is a consumer electronics product\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nSamsung invited a host of random guests on stage during its CES 2015 press conference today, but perhaps the most notable was designer Yves Behar . When the company introduced its new lineup of SUHD TV, it took a moment to introduce a particularly special model , the S9W, that was designed in concert by Behar, his Fuseproject design house, and Samsung itself \u2014 the first product in a newly-announced, long-term partnership between Fuseproject and Samsung.\nFuseproject has given us more details on the S9W, and it sounds like a uniquely impressive piece of AV gear, albeit probably not a TV that'll work in most people's living rooms. The main components of the TV are a curved, 82-inch UHD screen that rests on top of a \"gallery-like cube.\" It's a 21:9 TV, much wider than the 16:9 TVs we're used to, and has more in common with a movie screen than TV screen. Behar writes that \"an image on a curve instantly becomes a sculpture\" rather than something more akin to a painting. As such, the cube felt like the most appropriate way to display the screen \u2014 and it also let designers put the majority of the guts and technology right into the cube, resulting in an incredibly thin design.\nSee all the latest CES 2015 news here \u203A\nThe cube does a lot more than just hold the guts of the TV \u2014 it also serves as an audio source, and perhaps more notably, the pedestal lets you adjust the TV's position. Using the remote, you can actually swivel and point the TV left and right depending on where you're sitting. It's probably not a feature that you'll need to use very often, but it could solve some of the viewing angle problems that have cropped up with the proliferation of curved TVs. Another notable design touch is how the top of the cube opens up when the set is turned on, revealing an inside lighting system and presumably improving the audio output.\nHow much will this giant monolith cost? Samsung isn't saying just yet\nIf you're interested in learning more about the design philosophy behind this TV, you can read all of Fuseproject and Behar's statement  right here . It certainly is high-minded stuff, and it's pretty clear that this won't be a very practical or affordable purchase for most people out there. But there's no doubt that it's different, and could be a site to behold in person. The real way to experience this TV is to soak it all in, visually, so these photos that Fuseproject provided us with will have to do for now. But we're hoping we'll get to see more of the S9W on the show floor soon.\nHint: Use the 's' and 'd' keys to navigate\n","Title":"Yves Behar taught Samsung how to build a beautiful TV | The Verge","Tags":["photo-essay","tech","ces-2015"]}