{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nGravity won big tonight at the Oscars, as Alfonso Cuarón's space drama took home seven awards including best director \u2014 but it was 12 Years a Slave that won the highest honor of the evening. Going into the Oscars, the two films that seemed to be in the strongest position were Gravity and Steve McQueen's drama, with ten and nine nominations each, respectively. But the Matthew McConaughey-starring Dallas Buyers Club was the film that got off to the quickest start, with Jared Leto taking home the statue for best supporting actor while the film also snagged best makeup.\nGravity first made a statement in the technical categories, picking up awards for best visual effects , sound editing, and best sound mixing. The roll continued as Gravity won best cinematography for director of photography Emmanuel Lubezki, and best editing for Alfonso Cuarón and Mark Sanger (Baz Luhrmann's extravagant take on The Great Gatsby won the awards for costume design and production design). Cate Blanchett's performance in Blue Jasmine beat out Sandra Bullock for best actress, however, and Matthew McConaughey then won for best actor in Dallas Buyers Club. While it earned several nominations, the sci-fi love story Her won just a single Oscar: best original screenplay for writer\u2013director Spike Jonze.\n'12 Years a Slave' won three awards\nCuarón earned best director for Gravity, a film whose bravura combination of live-action elements and digital wizardry took years to bring to the screen, but when it came time for the biggest award of them all it was Steve McQueen's 12 Years a Slave that came away the winner. Despite its many nominations, the film's only other wins were best supporting actress for Lupita Nyong'o and best adapted screenplay.\nHost Ellen DeGeneres struck a tone of snarky fun, poking fun at the nominees but always keeping them in on the joke \u2014 in stark contrast to Seth MacFarlane's performance last year, which had more than its fair share of awkward moments. Even some of the show's extended bits, such as when DeGeneres walked through the audience hand-delivering slices of pizza to Harrison Ford and Jennifer Lawrence, were entertaining because the celebrities were all too happy to play along. The one awkward moment came when she stopped to take a selfie of herself during the broadcast, most likely just an opportunity to brandish a Samsung smartphone as part of the company's suffocating sponsorship deal with the Oscars . A follow-up bit played much better with the involvement of a group of nominees, however, and set a new Twitter retweet record in the process.\nIf only Bradley's arm was longer. Best photo ever. #oscars pic.twitter.com\/C9U5NOtGap\n\u2014 Ellen DeGeneres (@TheEllenShow) March 3, 2014\nNetflix ended up taking home an award \u2014 though not necessarily the one everybody was expecting. The company had picked up the documentary The Square last year, which looked poised to become its first Oscar win when nominations were announced. It lost to the documentary 20 Feet From Stardom, but Netflix still came out a winner thanks to a last-minute acquisition: The Lady in Number 6: Music Saved My Life, which Netflix bought just last week, won the best short documentary award.\nThe full list of winners for the 86th Academy Awards are below:\nBest Picture\n","Title":"'12 Years a Slave' earns best picture Oscar, 'Gravity' and 'Dallas Buyers Club' win big | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment\",\"Story Streams\"","\"5229017"]}