{"Main text":"201 Comments\nAs he gets ready to turn 52 in July, Tom Cruise has settled into an impressive middle age. No longer the box-office titan he once was, he nonetheless remains an incredibly reliable on-screen presence. Like the San Antonio Spurs or late-period Sonic Youth, he doesn\u2019t do anything that\u2019s particularly surprising, but he\u2019s done it so well for so long that we risk taking his excellence for granted.\nRemarkably, aging hasn\u2019t diminished Cruise\u2019s appeal. He was his timeless kinetic self in 2011\u2019s Mission: Impossible \u2013 Ghost Protocol, and even in a dud like Rock of Ages he gave his all in such a spellbinding way that you ended up rooting for him despite the movie. That\u2019s definitely not a problem with his latest, Edge of Tomorrow, which is superb. Like Cruise himself at this stage of his career, the film\u2019s concept ought to be played-out and obvious, but Edge of Tomorrow is much smarter and sharper than you\u2019d expect. And much of its success comes from Cruise\u2019s anchoring, fully engaged performance.\nSet in the near future when an invading alien race has wiped out much of humanity over a five-year period, Edge of Tomorrow stars Cruise as William Cage, a US officer who\u2019s essentially a high-ranking military spokesman. (Squeamish around blood and having never set foot on the battlefield, Cage ran an advertising firm before the war. He\u2019s the type of slimy, smug salesman that Cruise\u2019s Jerry Maguire character was trying to avoid becoming.) But after Cage pisses off a superior (Brendan Gleeson), he finds himself stripped of his rank and stationed on the front line for an attack that is humanity\u2019s last, best chance to subdue this alien race, known as the Mimics. Strapped into a mechanized super-suit like his fellow infantry soldiers, Cage realizes he\u2019s dead meat; he doesn\u2019t even know how to activate his suit\u2019s weapons.\nBut a funny thing happens on the way to Cage\u2019s funeral. Seconds after dying in combat, he wakes up to discover that he\u2019s back at the beginning of the previous day. No matter what Cage does, his death returns him to that same point, forcing him to relive the same period of time again and again. Unsure what\u2019s going on and unable to convince anybody of what he\u2019s experiencing, Cage finally finds an ally in a decorated soldier, Rita Vrataski (Emily Blunt), who once had the same inexplicable power that he has. Together, they have to figure out the right combination of moves that will keep Cage alive long enough to kill the Mimics\u2019 queen, the Omega.\nThe battle scenes are like a sci-fi 'Saving Private Ryan'\nThe Groundhog Day comparisons are unavoidable, but unlike that Bill Murray comedy Edge of Tomorrow isn\u2019t about its main character learning to become a better person but, rather, learning how not to die. The movie is based on Hiroshi Sakurazaka\u2019s sci-fi novel All You Need Is Kill, which was praised for a clever time-looping conceit that doubled as an apt metaphor for the monotony and pointlessness of war. Edge of Tomorrow has similar thematic undercurrents if you want to note them. (For instance, the chorus of Cage\u2019s run-ins with a comic-blowhard commanding officer, played by Bill Paxton, slowly reveals itself to be a parody of every gung-ho war movie ever made.) But the film is more of a typical Cruise vehicle in that it focuses primarily on crafty, muscular sequences that are accented by the actor\u2019s emotional intensity, lending the action an empathetic, human dimension.\nCredited to three screenwriters, including The Usual Suspects Oscar-winner Christopher McQuarrie, Edge of Tomorrow gets a surprising amount of mileage out of its central premise. Even if you haven\u2019t experienced this loop-de-loop conceit before, there\u2019s a worry that the film\u2019s repetition of events will become, well, repetitive. So tip your cap to director Doug Liman (The Bourne Identity, Mr & Mrs. Smith) and editor James Herbert for figuring out how to balance Cage\u2019s growing frustration with moments of hopefulness as the character gradually makes progress toward finding the Omega. Some might complain that the film\u2019s do-over premise is another example of Hollywood blockbusters cheapening the trauma and finality of death, but Edge of Tomorrow actually suggests a fate worse than dying: an unending purgatory in which unlimited second chances equate to infinite amounts of failure.\nThat existential notion girds the film\u2019s teasing, puzzle-solving story, giving it a resonance to go along with Cage\u2019s trial-and-error process. Liman choreographs the action sequences with a frenetic grandeur \u2014 Edge of Tomorrow\u2019s battle scenes are like a sci-fi Saving Private Ryan \u2014 and his aliens are wonderfully terrifying monster-spiders, the best of their kind since Starship Troopers. Edge of Tomorrow gives Liman his biggest canvas, but his cold smarts and sneaky sense of humor aren\u2019t lost in the process. No matter how convoluted some of the logic gets, the film always feels visually and narratively sophisticated where other summer tentpoles are merely lumbering and bludgeoning.\nFor a change, though, Cruise isn\u2019t the all-confident hero: Cage is a coward and certainly too old to be a fighting soldier. But Cruise wears his limitations lightly. For the actor, human weaknesses like age or squeamishness are mere trifles to overcome, and his commitment to Cage\u2019s buried decency gives the performance a rugged dignity. And Cruise has learned not to be a star who has to dominate his movies: Blunt\u2019s hard-as-nails character gets all the best one-liners, while he uses his familiar, slightly hammy bug-eyed intensity to wring laughs from his character\u2019s impossible situation. There\u2019s been talk that Edge of Tomorrow could be one of the summer\u2019s bigger bombs, and the tracking hasn\u2019t been very promising so far. It would be ironic that after years of being one of the world\u2019s biggest stars, Cruise could be entering a period where his work actually gets overlooked. If so, Edge of Tomorrow will be Exhibit A in the case for why he\u2019s still killing it.\nDoug Liman\u2019s Edge of Tomorrow is now playing internationally. It opens in the US on June 6th. All images courtesy of Warner Bros.\n","Title":"'Edge of Tomorrow' review | The Verge","Tags":["culture","movie-reviews","entertainment"]}