{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nDespite a sharp drop in ratings following its debut, ABC has renewed Marvel's Agents of SHIELD for a second season. The show garnered big ratings when it premiered in September of last year; 12.12 million people tuned in. Viewership has fallen hard since then, so ABC's order for season two is a show of faith that Marvel's TV effort will eventually hit its stride. Still, SHIELD has managed to maintain strong performance with young men \u2014 a prized demographic for advertisers. Created by Joss Whedon, Agents of SHIELD follows Agent Phil Coulson, who appears in several of Marvel's feature films, and his band of agents. The series shares continuity with the films in Marvel's cinematic universe, with some episodes serving as  direct tie-ins to full-length pictures on the silver screen.\nABC has also picked up another new series from Marvel: Agent Carter. Starring Captain America's Hayley Atwell, the show is set one year after the events of Captain America: The First Avenger. It's largely inspired by the short Marvel One-Shot: Agent Carter that was included as bonus content on the Iron Man 3 Blu-ray\/DVD. ABC's latest Marvel series will reportedly air during SHIELD's mid-season hiatus, with plans calling for the two shows to eventually be tied in together. Aside from its network TV projects, Marvel is also working in tandem with Netflix on original content for the streaming service. ABC's description of Agent Carter follows below.\nThe story is set in 1946 and peace has dealt Peggy Carter a serious blow as she finds herself marginalized when the men return home from fighting abroad. Working for the covert SSR (Strategic Scientific Reserve), Peggy must balance doing administrative work and going on secret missions for Howard Stark all while trying to navigate life as a single woman in America, in the wake of losing the love of her life \u2014 Steve Rogers.\n","Title":"'Marvel's Agents of SHIELD' gets a second season, 'Agent Carter' coming to ABC | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}