{"Main text":"145 Comments\nPaul Verhoeven\u2019s RoboCop was a singular work of pop art thanks to its sharply defined future, incisive satire of 1980s commercialism, and the almost comically patriotic idea of a savior being manufactured out of a deteriorating American industrial center. José Padilha\u2019s new update may ultimately be unsuccessful as a remake of that 1987 classic, but it\u2019s far from a failure. By taking a thoughtful look at our ongoing relationship with technology, the new film offers a sophisticated character study that questions the value of peacekeepers whose humanity is, both in real life and on film, becoming obsolete. If it were presented on its own, without the shadow of the original looming over every creative decision, many would be heralding it as a superlative genre entry in its own right.\nLiving in Detroit circa 2028, Joel Kinnaman (TV\u2019s The Killing) stars as Alex Murphy, a quick-tempered cop who lands in the crosshairs of an arms dealer named Antoine Vallon (Patrick Garrow) when he proves incorruptible and unrelenting. After falling victim to a car bomb, Murphy is transformed into a cyborg named RoboCop at the behest of Omnicorp CEO Raymond Sellars (Michael Keaton), who wants to literally put a human face on the peacekeeping drones his corporation builds. But when Murphy\u2019s lingering humanity begins to undermine his programming, he finds himself embroiled in a battle to retain his identity while his corporate overlords use him as a pawn to manipulate public opinion.\nCompared to the original\u2019s slick, darkly funny efficiency, the most significant change Padilha makes is in creating a more measured, meditative emotional journey for Murphy. As wonderful as Peter Weller was in 1987, Kinnaman\u2019s interpretation of the character is more complex and tortured as he\u2019s confronted with the realization he would be little more than a few slabs on a coroner\u2019s table were he not in the suit \u2014 but also that he is never truly himself even while he is in it. Where in the first film his transformation took place via an extended montage, here it\u2019s a 40-minute set piece where Murphy discovers what has happened to him, and slowly comes to terms with how Norton and his colleagues have co-opted his identity.\nThe science of RoboCop is remarkably prescient, engineering a half-man, half-machine that its creators acknowledge is outdated; it\u2019s a step back from unmanned drones that are faster and more precise. But so too are the film\u2019s insights into the symbiosis between corporate and political maneuvering. Sellars builds a device \u2014 to him, another product \u2014 with the emotional and moral compass of a man, but only to appease public opposition to robotic surveillance and secure a lucrative government contract. Padilha and screenwriter Joshua Zetumer brilliantly observe that in an era where drone strikes and artificial intelligence are already a reality, enhanced strength and accuracy are nominal improvements \u2014 and essential human qualities such as compassion are impediments to the sort of efficiency that technology is meant to facilitate.\nMore meditative character study than techno-thriller\nAt the same time, Padilha asks the question, When does a man sustained by technology stop being a man? There\u2019s even less left of Murphy in this film than its predecessor \u2014 this time he\u2019s basically a face, hand, and pair of lungs \u2014 and the character rightly struggles to determine what kind of normal life he can ever experience again. His family not only still exists in this version; they very much wants to see and reconnect with him. But how much of a father can Murphy be to his son, much less a husband to his wife, when he can barely interact physically with them and is due back at a lab to have his blood cleaned?\nDo these ideas make it a relevant, thought-provoking film? Indisputably. But do they make it an entertaining one? Not always. Although there is a showdown with some of RoboCop\u2019s automated counterparts \u2014 including, yes, the ED-209 \u2014 the action scenes in Padilha\u2019s version are few and far between. This feels much more like a meditative character study than an energetic techno-thriller. Gone are the comical advertisements that served as scene breaks in the original, here replaced by the ongoing manipulation of Murphy\u2019s identity by his creators to make him as appealing to consumers as possible. (When RoboCop abandons his programming and decides to pursue suspects in the unsolved case of his own murder, Omnicorp\u2019s head of marketing considers it a publicity bonanza.) Padilha replaces all of the media coverage from the first film with an interactive right-wing television show hosted by Pat Novak (Samuel L. Jackson), whose penchant for actorly exaggeration feels all too similar to our modern day political pundits. In 1987, RoboCop mercilessly satirized the existing media as it grew increasingly polemical, but more than 25 years later, it plays like a forecast of things to come. And for better or worse, that can\u2019t help but feel a little bit less fun.\nThat said, Kinnaman\u2019s solid, introspective performance helps bring the character to life. Although he repeats a few of the hallmark lines that immortalized the character in 1987, the young actor delivers them with a slightly more humanistic edge: \u201CThank you for your cooperation\u201D is more of a sarcastic riposte than an automated reply. As the CEO of Omnicorp, Keaton taps into a sort of dark-side Steve Jobs persona that is at once Machiavellian and earnest, determined to conquer the market but convinced that he\u2019s doing it in the world\u2019s best interests.\nA remake that doesn't feel like it rolled off an assembly line\nBut that general self-seriousness may simply be a result of the film\u2019s sobering look at what might happen if this sort of experiment were to actually occur, which is admittedly a sort of way-home consolation for never hearing anyone utter the phrase \u201Cbitches, leave\u201D or watching a man take a bath in toxic waste. Unlike the original\u2019s glorious, crowd-pleasing triumph, the new film does leave you with the thought, Where does RoboCop go from here? Even if he vanquishes all of his foes, he still has to face himself \u2014 to survive as a political symbol and technological anachronism, but never again as a human being.\nSeeing the inescapability of the situation, Dr. Norton says apologetically, \u201CWe have failed Alex Murphy.\u201D But in acknowledging the culpability of his creators, and exposing the character\u2019s uncertain future, José Padilha has not. Mind you, that doesn\u2019t make the 2014 RoboCop a great film. But it makes for a much more interesting product than anyone expected \u2014 a remake that for once doesn\u2019t feel like it rolled off of an assembly line.\nJosé Padilha\u2019s RoboCop opens Wednesday, February 12th. Photos courtesy of Columbia Pictures and MGM Pictures.\n","Title":"'RoboCop' review: meet the new model | The Verge","Tags":["culture","movie-reviews","entertainment"]}