{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nApple's big developer conference will begin on June 8th this year, when it'll likely show the next versions of iOS, OS X, and perhaps new hardware as well. The tagline for this year's  Worldwide Developers Conference is \"the epicenter of change,\" and that's a good explanation for why this event is so popular. Like last year, Apple has actually switched over to a lottery process for selling tickets \u2014 rather than offering them first come, first serve \u2014 because their demand is so high. The event will once again be held at the Moscone Center in San Francisco. Developer events will run through June 12th, and this time around, they'll actually stream live to those offsite.\nWill a new Apple TV be introduced?\nAs usual, Apple is vague about what we can expect to hear about at WWDC, giving its regular statement that we'll see \"the future of iOS and OS X.\" That's pretty much a given, though. Each year, WWDC kicks off with a keynote presentation from Apple's top executives, who usually run through sales and distribution highlights and then introduce major software updates. Hardware debuts are not as common at WWDC as they once were \u2014 for a while, it was where new iPhones were introduced \u2014 but they're certainly not out of the question. A couple years ago, Apple used the stage to preview its long-awaited Mac Pro update.\nThis year, it's been reported that Apple will introduce  a new version of the Apple TV at the conference. It would be a logical place for the streaming box's introduction: the new model is supposed to include support for third-party apps, and Apple's developers conference is the obvious place to announce that if it wants to get people coding. Developers interested in attending will be able to apply for tickets from today through Friday at 10AM in California. Those chosen will be lucky enough to have the chance to pay $1,599 to attend. One final, important note to attendees: selfie sticks are banned this year on the Moscone grounds.\nVerge Video: Apple's new MacBook is a glimpse into the future\n","Title":"Apple's Worldwide Developers Conference starts June 8th | The Verge","Tags":["apple","tech"]}