{"Main text":"Apple is finally killing iPhoto \u2014 and this is the replacement\nIt's fast, fast, fast\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nPhotos for OS X, the modern photo library that Apple built from the ground up for Mac computers, is making its debut. A developer seed version of Photos is being distributed to developers today, the company said. It will be followed by a public Photos beta, with the final Photos product delivered to Mac users as part of a free software update this spring. (Check out  our complete hands-on report here .)\nApple announced last year that it would end development on its consumer photo library, iPhoto, and its professional photo editing suite, Aperture. In their place, the company said it would develop an all new product, tied closely to the cloud. The resulting product will likely feel like an improvement for most iPhoto users, though users of Aperture\u2019s more powerful editing and organizational features are likely to find it wanting.\nAn improvement for most iPhoto users\nWhat can you expect from Photos? A clean, reasonably intuitive library for your pictures combined with simple cloud backup solution and useful editing tools. The app has the same flat look of the Photos app from iOS and should be easy to navigate for anyone who has spent time with an iPhone. Migrating your photo libraries to the new app is as simple as opening Photos; you can keep both iPhoto and Aperture on your system if you like.\nThe app has four main tabs. Photos contains all of your pictures in chronological order. Shared contains pictures from your shared photo streams, along with an activity feed for likes and comments in those streams. Albums contains albums that you\u2019ve created yourself. And aside from storing slideshows, Projects is essentially a storefront for Apple\u2019s printed photo products: cards, books, calendars, and so on. (You can now print your panoramic photos there, too.)\nPhotos for OS X uses some other neat organizational tricks. The Albums view automatically highlights photos from your last import and your favorites, along with buckets for different kinds of images: panoramas, slo-mo videos, and time lapses, for example. On the whole it\u2019s a much easier system to navigate. And since the software is completely brand new, it\u2019s super fast, even with a large library of photos \u2014 at least, it was on the new MacBook Pro we tested it on.\nPhotos is tied closely to iCloud Photo Library , Apple\u2019s photo backup product, which is also in beta. iCloud Photo Library stores your first 5GB of pictures for free; after that, you\u2019ll need to pay. Prices start at $0.99 a month for 20GB of storage and go up to $19.99 a month for 1TB. My Photo Stream, Apple\u2019s sometimes-confusing free service for storing and synchronizing your last 1,000 photos, will continue to exist independently of Photos. (Check out  our big explainer on Apple's new photo software and services here.\nPhotos are still siloed\nFor all it does right, it\u2019s worth noting that Apple\u2019s photo products are still siloed off from the rest of the world. You might have photos of yourself on Facebook that you\u2019ve never bothered to download, or some old collections on Flickr, or some cherished memories on Instagram. Unlike some third-party solutions, including the  recently acquired Picturelife , Photos won\u2019t go out and grab those pictures for you.\nFor the photos it does manage, though, the app offers powerful synchronization between devices. Take a photo on an iCloud-connected iPhone, and it pops up on Photos less than 30 seconds later. Edits you make on your Mac synchronize all but instantly on your phone. If you revert your changes, they\u2019ll revert back on your phone, too. And there\u2019s a nice search feature, too: you can look for photos by file name, when you took it, where you took it, or which people are in it.\niPhoto was never one of Apple\u2019s most beloved products. Every year, it seemed slower and less connected to the phone \u2014 the place where most photos are taken. Photos for OS X does a lot of things right, but mostly it\u2019s just fast and tightly integrated with your other devices. It feels like a big step forward, even if feels overdue.\n","Title":"Apple is finally killing iPhoto \u2014 and this is the replacement | The Verge","Tags":["apple","apps","report","tech"]}