{"Main text":"Can rolling be better than walking? Using the RocketSkates at CES 2015\nIt was really difficult to learn\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nWhen I first heard about RocketSkates, I thought it was too good to be true: I've always dreamed of living in a Jetsons-inspired future world in which I propel myself to work with some sort of motorized contraption strapped to my feet. And it looks like I may get the opportunity.\nAfter seeing RocketSkates explode on Kickstarter, I was very eager to try out these oddities, which look like a cross between roller skates, moon shoes, and single-foot Segways. I thought riding would be as simple as strapping the skates to my feet and taking off; I was very wrong.\nSee all the latest CES 2015 news here \u203A\nTo ride, you strap the skates to your feet with the snowboard-esque bindings, turn the skates on, kick off with your back foot, and then keep your toes slightly angled downward to get moving. There's a large wheel on either side of the RocketSkates, each of which has a motor of its own. That contributes to the skates weighing 7 pounds a piece \u2014 pretty heavy for something strapped to your foot. The skates also have a smaller third wheel on the back that act as a brake and assists with balancing.\nInterestingly, one of the skates acts as the dominant one \u2014 meaning when that specific skate senses movement, it tells the other skate to spin its wheels. I was told to keep the dominant one in front to make riding easier, but that didn't help. I had a lot of trouble picking up riding in general \u2014 I thought I'd be able to lock my feet in and roll around with no problem. That was far from the case.\nI tried Acton's RocketSkates in the Las Vegas Convention Center parking lot. In regard to design, RocketSkates are pretty bulky, and the added weight made me tired when I was learning to ride. It wasn\u2019t a deal breaker, but one of a handful of barriers to my enjoyment.\nThe tricky thing with the RocketSkates is finding the sweet spot, the angle at which your toes should be pointed: too far down and your toes hit the ground, and too far up and the brakes will kick in. In the process of learning to ride I did a lot of panic running: I went too fast, lost my balance and control over the skates, and inadvertently used my toes as a brake. That led to a few falls and some sore toes.\nIt took me about half an hour to semi-confidently get moving\u2026 slowly. Not impossible, but not nearly as simple as I'd hoped. I started in beginner mode, so we kicked the skates into expert mode using the companion app and, surprisingly, I handled the transition fine.\nI came away disappointed\nI tested the R-6 model, which costs $499 and has a range of 6 miles. There's also the R-8, and R-10 models which cost $599 and $699, and have ranges of 8 and 10 miles, respectively.\nI came away from my time with the RocketSkates with a sense of disappointment. Not only was it really hard to learn, the skates felt heavy and clunky on my feet. Maybe I need to spend more time with them and gain some skill so that I\u2019ll get a better sense of their potential. I'd certainly like to see a version of the RocketSkates that have some self-balancing tech \u2014 similar to the  self-balancing unicycle ,  Solowheel , and  Onewheel .\nLook, I\u2019m still convinced the future involves rolling around with electric high-powered skates on your feet. I\u2019m still stuck in the present, but RocketSkates are a step forward.\nHint: Use the 's' and 'd' keys to navigate\n","Title":"Can rolling be better than walking? Using the RocketSkates at CES 2015 | The Verge","Tags":["hands--on","videos","tech","ces-2015"]}