{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nThe Cannes Film Festival may be known for breaking some of the best international films that you haven't heard of yet, but it also gets a number of exciting, major releases, too. This year, that includes Pixar's Inside Out, which will have its world premiere at the festival. \"We are overjoyed at being included in this year's official selection at Cannes,\" Inside Out director Pete Docter says in a statement. It's prestigious for Pixar just to have been included, and it'll be a good way to put the film in front of top critics ahead of its June 19th opening in the US. Cannes begins on May 13th.\nCannes will open with a film from a female director for the first time in 28 years\nCannes announced its full lineup today, after detailing its opening film earlier this week. The opener is the festival's other big news: for the first time in 28 years, a film directed by a woman will kick off Cannes. That film is La Tête haute, directed by Emmanuelle Bercot, and is about a juvenile delinquent moving toward adulthood and the social worker who's trying to put him on a clean path. The festival has been subject to recent criticism for its failure to include more films from women, and this is a pretty notable response. Typically, as  Deadline points out , Cannes has opened with much flashier titles, like Pixar's Up, Wes Anderson\u2019s Moonrise Kingdom, and Baz Luhrmann\u2019s The Great Gatsby, so this is a notable change of pace.\nInside Out is not actually competing in the festival, which is the case for a number of the other already-big-name films showing up at Cannes. That includes Mad Max: Fury Road, The Little Prince, and Woody Allen's Irrational Man. There will also be a special screening of A Tale Of Love And Darkness, which is Natalie Portman's directorial debut. The Amy Winehouse documentary Amy will also be screened.\nA few of the more recognizable names  heading into the competition include The Sea of Trees, directed by Gus Van Sant and starring Matthew McConaughey and Naomi Watts; Carol, starring Cate Blanchett and Rooney Mara and directed by Todd Haynes, who did the Bob Dylan biopic I'm Not There; and Sicario, which stars Emily Blunt, Benicio Del Toro, and Josh Brolin. Of course, there are a lot of other intriguing films \u2014 and a whole lot more that you'll be hearing a ton about once Cannes is over. Some of the films that show up at next year's Oscars are likely to be on this list, so take a good look now. The full Cannes screening list is below,  reprinted from The Hollywood Reporter :\nOpening Film\nStanding Tall (La Tête haute), Emmanuelle Bercot\nCompetition\n","Title":"Cannes Film Festival announces lineup, including world premiere of Pixar's Inside Out | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}