{"Main text":"Next\nThe company's focus on students went beyond designing the computer to withstand abuse \u2014 there's a new multicolor LED \"activity light\" in the computer's lid that reminded me of the Chromebook PIxel's light bar. However, this light actually serves a purpose: with a custom app installed, users can change the color of the light as a sort of signal. The example we were given was imagining a teacher in front of a class of students, each of whom could activate or change the color of their light to \"raise their hand\" so to speak, or signal they need help with something. Dell also said it could be used for taking quick quizzes or polls of a group or students, or use the lights to separate students into different groups. It sounds a bit like a solution in search of a problem, but Dell has specifically been working with educators to add useful features to its devices, and it sounds like this is one of them.\nDell's 11-inch Latitude is basically its Chromebook running Windows\nWhile Chrome has made a lot of headway in the education market, there are still plenty out there who prefer Windows \u2014 to that end, Dell is also offering a near-identical version of the Chromebook 11, but instead running either Windows 7 or Windows 8.1. The Latitude 11 Education Series launches alongside last year's 13-inch, education-focused Latitude and is nearly identical to the company's new Chromebook. It has the same construction, same 180-degree hinge, same 11-inch display (with touchscreen optional) \u2014 the only noticeable difference at first glance is there's no \"Chrome\" logo on the lid, the keyboard is in the traditional Windows layout, and that new LED light is in a slightly different position. (Also, Dell's offering the Windows model with a blue trim in addition to the standard black model.)\nThe Latitude 11 is nearly as cheap as its Chrome-based counterpart, starting at $299. That'll get you an Intel Celeron processor of unspecified speed, a 250GB hard drive, and an unspecified amount of RAM (we're guessing 2GB, like the Chromebook) \u2014 not a lot of detail, but we're guessing Dell will fill in the blanks by the time it goes on sale March 3rd.\nTo match its strategy of dual Microsoft- and Google-powered laptops, Dell is also offering a new pair of Venue 10 tablets, one of which runs Windows 8.1, the other Android Lollipop. Neither tablet is a high-end beast, and that shows in the screen choice \u2014 a 10.1-inch panel that only runs at 1280 x 800, a resolution we left behind years ago. (Fortunately, both are upgradeable to full 1080p if you so choose). To be fair to Dell, these are low-priced, education-focused devices, so the company was clearly trying to find places to cut corners. Both tablets feature Dell's LED light on the back and each has a keyboard docking station you can pop them into to get a much-improved typing experience.\n","Title":"Dell is launching a new Chromebook 11 alongside a $299 Windows-based counterpart | The Verge","Tags":["microsoft","google","hands--on","tech"]}