{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nEyefi is releasing a new Wi-Fi-enabled SD card today that's meant to make transferring RAW photos from a card to a computer more convenient for photographers. The new card is called the  Mobi Pro , and it'll be the first in Eyefi's Mobi line that's capable of handling RAW files and connecting to local Wi-Fi networks. Earlier Eyefi cards were also capable of those feats, but Eyefi is now bringing those abilities to the Mobi line, which is supposed to be easier to set up than its other cards.\nSelective sync may not be as convenient as it sounds\nThe Mobi Pro also has one other big feature new to this card line: selective sync. Other Eyefi cards work by automatically syncing all of your photos from the card to your phone or computer, but the Mobi Pro will, optionally, let you choose which photos to sync. That should be a huge help, although the implementation sounds less than convenient. To choose which photos to sync, you'll have to mark each one for write protection on the camera, which isn't always a quick thing to do.\nLike other Mobi cards, the Mobi Pro will primarily sync photos over to your phone. Because it's able to connect to local Wi-Fi networks, it's also able to sync straight to a desktop, if that's what you prefer. As for those huge RAW files, those will only be stored on a phone until Mobi's mobile app can push them up to the cloud and over to your desktop. Eyefi expects that most people will primarily use the card to get RAW files to their desktop, but its cloud service can also hang onto them, without any limits, so long as you're subscribed.\nThe Mobi Pro is only available in a single 32GB, Class 10 model. It'll sell for $99.99, replacing the old Pro X2 card. The Mobi Pro will also include one year of access to  Eyefi's cloud-storage service , which offers unlimited storage for $49.99 per year. Of course, for pros, plugging an SD card into a reader isn't exactly the roughest part of their workflow, so Eyefi's new card may not make a lot of sense for everyone. Then again, it could be a good choice if you're also in the market for  a new MacBook .\n","Title":"Eyefi's Mobi Pro card can wirelessly sync all your RAW photos | The Verge","Tags":["photography","tech"]}