{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nIt's a problem we've all faced \u2014 you're in your local Ferrari showroom, but you just can't decide which color supercar you want to buy this time. Classic red? A nice suave black? Garish yellow, to beat your Lambo-owning friends at their own game? Finally, there's an answer.\nFerrari has joined forces with developer Zspace to create the Ferrari AR showroom app, software that uses 3D tracking technology to recognize real-world cars and superimpose shapes, colors, and videos onto their real-time images. The app lets customers in Ferrari showrooms hold a tablet in front of their chosen vehicle and virtually change the rims, brakes, and paint job, building a custom specification for their new ride without the dealership needing to order it in.\nThe app currently works with five Ferrari models\nThe app uses 3D tracking technology  built by augmented reality specialists Metaio , and has seven \"feature spotlights\" that customers can select, including an X-ray view of the selected car that shows its components, a 3D breakdown of the brake assembly, and a visualization of the vehicle in a wind tunnel. Select the brakes option on the app, for example, and wheel pops out from its housing, displaying the brakes and screws that hold it in place.\nMetaio's technology is able to detect the car by tracking its edges. When the device housing the app is pointed at a Ferrari, it judges the distances between its panels, wheel arches, and other parts of its chassis, before overlaying the chosen graphics. Hold the device steady, and prospective Ferrari purchasers can change the car's color on the fly, using the augmented reality tech to repaint it without needing to leave the showroom.\nEdge tracking technology has been used by car manufacturers before. In 2013, Volkswagen worked with Metaio to  develop augmented reality software that showed technical information for the German manufacturer's hybrid concept XL1 car in real-time, visualizing real and virtual parts side-by-side on a tablet pointed toward the vehicle.\nFor the moment, the new Ferrari app works with five models \u2014 the 458 Speciale and Spider, the FF, the California, and the F12berlinetta \u2014 but the car manufacturer could conceivably use the technology for the rest of its range, too. (Not to say you'll see many unsold LaFerraris in dealerships.) American customers will have to wait a while before they can see their augmented reality Ferraris, though \u2014 the app's being rolled out in Japanese and Australian showrooms first, but will make its first appearance in the US at the upcoming  InsideAR augmented reality show in mid-May.\n","Title":"Ferrari's new app lets you virtually dismantle your $300,000 sports car | The Verge","Tags":["apps","tech","transportation"]}