{"Main text":"Google's car could be the best thing ever for privacy on the road\nDucking the police may be a lot easier in the future\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nOn January 2nd, 2013, David Eckart lived through a nightmare. After being stopped in a Walmart parking lot, New Mexico police asked Eckart to step out of his car, and patted him down. They searched his car without his consent. He was handcuffed, arrested, and eventually a search warrant was issued that allowed police to search his body for drugs, even though nothing had been found in his vehicle. He was taken by police to two emergency rooms where, despite his protests, he was humiliated and coerced into intrusive medical procedures. Hospital staff X-rayed him, searched his cavities for drugs several times, gave him three enemas in the presence of police, and finally an invasive colonoscopy. No drugs were ever found.\nWhat happened to Eckart is  a terrifying violation of dignity and privacy. And it all happened because police say he allegedly failed to yield at a stop sign.\nIt may never have happened if a computer were driving the car.\nIt\u2019s ironic, but the future of privacy on America\u2019s roadways could come from Google, a company that basically makes money from tracking everything you do on the web. This week  Google showed off a bold vision for the future of cars ; a custom-made driverless vehicle with no steering wheel and no pedals. You simply hop in the car, tell it where to go, and you\u2019re off to your destination. It\u2019s a crazy, amazing, optimistic bid for the future. It\u2019s also controversial.\nGoogle could protect our privacy in unexpected ways\nSome observers have called self-driving cars  \"a privacy nightmare.\" Since driverless cars will likely talk to each other on the road and periodically report back to the mothership, that means they\u2019ll collect a lot of data, and nobody really knows yet how that scheme will work. Will Google target ads to drivers based on where they roam? Will companies share your driving data with dubious marketers or sketchy data brokers? And what about the police? Will driverless cars be safe from the NSA?\nAll of these concerns are valid, except that they don\u2019t present a future that\u2019s appreciably different from our present situation. We\u2019re already living in a digital world where you\u2019re tracked at every turn. If you log in anywhere on the mainstream web, you\u2019re probably being tracked with cookies, and if you\u2019ve got a device with GPS in your pocket, the police can already track your historical whereabouts by obtaining a warrant. But what if mass adoption of driverless cars actually increased the privacy of drivers more than any other roadway invention in history?\nPrivacy is about more than just data collection. It\u2019s also about feeling secure against someone searching through your belongings. While the Bill of Rights protects citizens against unreasonable searches, it\u2019s no guarantee that your rights won\u2019t be violated \u2014 just ask David Eckart. Eckart\u2019s example is extreme, but the kind of traffic stops that led to his ordeal are very common. Forty-two percent of involuntary encounters with police in the United States happen in cars, and many of these encounters lead to searches.\nBut even traffic stops that don\u2019t result in searches can bring citizens unwanted attention or questioning. Whether they\u2019re questions from police about where you\u2019ve been and who you\u2019ve been with, why you\u2019re in a certain place, what you\u2019re photographing, what\u2019s in your bag, or anything else you might not want to tell an agent of the government, they pose a potential danger for people who don\u2019t want officers prying into their lives. That\u2019s not a paranoid view of police, it\u2019s just a fact about risk: even if most police have your best interests in mind, the best way to avoid invasive searches is simply to never come in contact with officers unless you want to. These concerns are especially significant for minority groups that are disproportionately targeted by law enforcement for searches.\nAccording to data collected by the Bureau of Justice Statistics, about 26.4 million people were subject to traffic stops in America in 2011. Of those stops, BJS data shows that a vast majority were violations based on the behavior and decisions of drivers. That includes speeding (46.5 percent of all stops), not wearing a seatbelt or talking on a phone (6.6 percent), illegal turns and lane changes (7.0 percent), stop sign or stop light violations (6.7 percent), and roadside sobriety checks (1.3 percent). Those are all legitimate reasons for police to stop people, but they can also lead to unwanted intrusions that have nothing to do with traffic violations.\nOf all the traffic stops in 2011, BJS says about 792,000 people (3 percent) were searched. The majority of those people didn\u2019t believe the police had a legitimate reason to search them.\nHuman beings get pulled over because they're human\nIn total, violations based on driver behavior accounted for 68.1 percent of traffic stops by police. In other words, human beings were pulled over in most cases because they\u2019re human: they break the rules of the road and sometimes make mistakes. In some cases, like obeying speed limits, there\u2019s even a cultural expectation that most people will routinely break the law. As the ACLU's senior policy analyst Jay Stanley tells The Verge, this means that roads are quasi-authoritarian spaces that give police huge discretion in choosing who to punish. But in a world with self-driving cars, things would look much different. \"The latitude of the police to pull people over would be much reduced,\" Stanley says. \"People wouldn\u2019t be subject to so much arbitrary enforcement.\"\nWhen humans become passengers instead of operators, moving violations would disappear as quickly as the steering wheel. Automated red-light and speeding cameras that ding drivers with robotic precision will become mostly obsolete. Self-driving cars won\u2019t speed, they won\u2019t make illegal turns, they won\u2019t blow through stop signs, and they\u2019ll safely ferry you home without incident if you\u2019ve had too much to drink or if you\u2019ve got a really important text message that can\u2019t wait. That means police will either need a very good reason to pull you over, or a clearly bogus one; but either way, it\u2019ll drastically lower the number of encounters people have with police.\nThat\u2019s not to say the road to a driverless future will be perfect. The first self-driving cars will probably be expensive and rare; hybrids and all-electric cars are still the exception to the cheap, reliable internal combustion engine. Wealthy people and those in cities with access to taxis will enjoy the benefits of self-driving cars first, even though the least privileged are searched most frequently. And taking the steering wheel away from privileged groups first (read:  wealthy white families ) may make those still driving traditional cars bigger targets for police in the interim before mass adoption. In the 2011 data from BJS, black drivers were relatively more likely to be pulled over in a traffic stop, and blacks and hispanics were more likely to be ticketed than white drivers. White drivers were both ticketed and searched at lower rates than black and hispanic drivers.\nGetting to scale won\u2019t necessarily be pretty. But the wide adoption of self-driving cars could provide substantial benefits to everyone. A recent report from the Eno Center for Transportation notes that driverless cars could eliminate at least 40 percent of fatal crashes in the US, saving tens of thousands of lives and billions of dollars every year. Our commutes to and from work could be smoother and safer. Lots of people who can\u2019t drive, like the young, elderly, and disabled, would be given new freedom.\nAnd we probably won\u2019t get pulled over by the cops.\n","Title":"Google's car could be the best thing ever for privacy on the road | The Verge","Tags":["culture","editorial","us-world","tech"]}