{"Main text":"Google VP's 135,908-foot leap breaks world record for highest free-fall parachute jump\nGoogler Dr. Alan Eustace tops Felix Baumgartner in the record books\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nA senior Google executive has broken the world record for highest free-fall parachute jump today. Dr. Alan Eustace, whose official title is Senior Vice President of Knowledge, successfully completed a jump from 135,908 feet. The accomplishment came seemingly out of nowhere with no fanfare or media buzz whatsoever;  The New York Times' science Twitter account first reported Eustace's incredible feat.\nEarly this morning, Eustace began his balloon-powered ascent from an abandoned runway in Roswell, New Mexico,  according to the Times . He was wearing a custom-designed spacesuit that featured an \"elaborate\" life support system in case anything went wrong during the plunge. The trip up took two hours; he fell back to earth in only 15 minutes with peak speeds exceeding 800 miles per hour; spectators report hearing a sonic boom as Eustace raced through the sky.\nThe last time someone made a leap like this, the entire world knew about it; Felix Baumgartner's  thrilling jump from the edge of space was streamed live over the internet as it happened. Baumgartner  became the first person to break the sound barrier in free fall. His dive was from an altitude of 127,852 feet, which at the time also set a new record for highest free-fall parachute jump \u2014 a record that Eustace surpassed today.\nEustace apparently declined Google's offers to help, seeking to avoid the spectacle and frenzy that surrounded Baumgartner's jump. Instead, he worked quietly for three years on the self-funded project \u2014 outside of Google's halls \u2014 to make his mark and shatter the altitude record by falling from the stratosphere. Paragon Space Development Corporation helped develop a life support system that allowed Eustace to breathe in pure oxygen during his long journey up and quick drop down. And yes, apparently Eustace brought some GoPro cameras with him; hopefully we'll eventually see that footage, since few people are ever in a position to experience this firsthand.\n","Title":"Google VP's 135,908-foot leap breaks world record for highest free-fall parachute jump | The Verge","Tags":["google","breaking","us-world","tech"]}