{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nOn the heels of today's FBI statement officially naming North Korea as responsible for the hack on Sony Pictures, Homeland Security chief Jeh Johnson has  put out a statement denouncing the attack and emphasizing his department's cybersecurity efforts. \"The cyber attack against Sony Pictures Entertainment was not just an attack against a company and its employees,\" Johnson said in the statement. \"It was also an attack on our freedom of expression and way of life.\" The release of The Interview, which is thought to have provoked the attack, has been cancelled, and the attackers have asked Sony Pictures executives to erase all traces of the film to prevent future leaks. President Obama is expected to address the matter later today.\nJohnson's full statement is below:\nThe cyber attack against Sony Pictures Entertainment was not just an attack against a company and its employees. It was also an attack on our freedom of expression and way of life.\nThis event underscores the importance of good cybersecurity practices to rapidly detect cyber intrusions and promote resilience throughout all of our networks. Every CEO should take this opportunity to assess their company\u2019s cybersecurity. Every business in this country should seek to employ best practices in cybersecurity. The Department of Homeland Security and other federal agencies are here to help. We seek to raise the level of cybersecurity in both the private sector and civilian government, and provide timely information to protect all our systems against cyber threats. For businesses and other organizations that want to improve their cybersecurity, the Cybersecurity Framework is a great starting point and a great tool.  It lays out best practices developed together by government and the private sector.\nWe encourage all businesses and other organizations to use the Cybersecurity Framework to assess and limit cyber risks and protect against cyber threats.\nFor tips and resources on how you can protect yourself and your organization from cyber threats, visit www.dhs.gov.\n","Title":"Homeland Security chief calls Sony hack 'an attack on our freedom of expression' | The Verge","Tags":["us-world","national-security\",\"Story Streams\"","\"7116622"]}