{"Main text":"How Blizzard is taking on gaming's hottest genre\nHeroes of the Storm isn't a League of Legends killer \u2014 it's something very different\n\u201CIt\u2019s like Smash Bros.,\u201D my teammate muses between Heroes of the Storm matches. \u201CExcept with DotA. And fan service. And ...\u201D\nHe hesitates. \u201CAnd silliness.\u201D\nBlizzard has been long overdue for a foray into the fiefdom of Defense of the Ancient-esque titles, an offshoot of real-time strategy games that sees two five-person teams fighting down three lanes to be the first to overrun the other\u2019s base. (Otherwise known as MOBAs, short for multiplayer online battle arena.) Heroes of the Storm is the company\u2019s big attempt to take on the massive successes of League of Legends and Dota 2, titles that command huge, rapt audiences , making them among the most popular \u2014 and lucrative \u2014 games in the world. The irony is that the company was inadvertently responsible for grandfathering the original Dota, a mod for Warcraft III, which was in turn inspired by a custom-designed map in Starcraft, Blizzard\u2019s seminal sci-fi real-time strategy game.\nThat said, the World of Warcraft developer is making up for lost time with incredible exuberance and no small amount of cartoony style. Heroes of the Storm takes characters from franchises like Diablo and Warcraft and puts them together into what Blizzard calls a \"team brawler\", essentially a more approachable take on the often daunting sub-genre of online action-strategy games.\nIt\u2019s sometimes hard to take Heroes of the Storm seriously. The game, which is currently in closed beta, does things like dress Abathur \u2014 the spidery Zerg Evolution Master from the Starcraft universe \u2014 in adorable onesies, and turn dwarven heroes into lollipop-wielding lords of confection. The games are short; 10- to 20-minute bursts of frenetic activity, at most, a paltry time span compared to the 40-minute average of a League of Legends or Dota 2 match. The growing stable of maps are also bright, outlandish, and populated by over-the-top narrators.\nAs for dying, that\u2019s mostly an inconvenience measured in seconds.\nJuxtaposed against heavyweight names like League of Legends and Dota 2, Heroes of the Storm can come across as a little rudimentary, perhaps even a tad shallow. Tonally, it\u2019s most reminiscent of Ronimo Games\u2019 Awesomenauts, a 2D sci-fi battle arena with the aesthetics of an \u201880s cartoon show. But that\u2019s not a bad thing.\nDying is mostly an inconvenience\nHeroes of the Storm straddles that knife edge between competitive sports and the \"one more round\" compulsiveness of simpler games, like Angry Birds. There is no earnest requirement for cat-like reflexes or encyclopedic knowledge of team synergies, although both are never bad to possess. No demand to memorize buy orders, or what item suits which character best in what situation. You don\u2019t even need to learn how to deliver the killing blow. Heroes of the Storm jettisons many of the genre\u2019s staples \u2014 gold and items being the obvious examples \u2014 in favor of a brisker, more arcade-y feel.\nWhich is also what makes Heroes of the Storm so interesting. In a congested landscape of clones, Blizzard\u2019s upcoming title feels incredibly distinctive. Part of this can be attributed to the roster of playable characters. Every Blizzard aficionado in history has, at one point or another, wondered if Kerrigan could take on Diablo and how a dialogue between Raynor and Uther would resolve. Heroes of the Storm fulfills that curiosity and then some, reimagining inside jokes ( Elite Tauren Chieftain is a real band comprised of Blizzard employees) and non-combat pets as battle-hardened combatants. It\u2019s like fan service turned into a game.\nThere is no thematic coherence to the cast either, which might initially come across as jarring if you\u2019re used to the tenuous narratives that string together most of the genre. But this allows the developers the freedom to gleefully introduce ridiculous costumes, and characters that fall way outside of the standard RPG trifecta. (Abathur fights primarily by attaching symbiotes to his teammates while the Lost Vikings, who can be controlled manually, each have an attack corresponding to a different button.)\nThe other half of that equation is tethered to the game\u2019s approachability: it plays like it\u2019s meant to be fun right out of the box. Dota, and all of its derivatives, are complex beasts filled with esoteric systems. These are games intended to be learned over the course of months and years, rewarding diligence with incremental advances in skill. Great, if you\u2019re willing to put in the time. Less so, if you\u2019re leery of vitriolic communities or spending more than a thousand hours learning the ropes .\nEven the greenest newbie can provide value to their team\nCertainly, these intricacies exist in Heroes of the Storm, but there\u2019s also a sense that such masteries are optional. You\u2019ll undeniably benefit from committing the nuances to muscle memory, but even the greenest newbie can provide value to their team by breaking treasure chests and ferrying the contents to a ghost pirate. In that respect, Heroes of the Storm comes across as a curious hybrid of Dota and the old Warcraft III custom maps, the latter being unique playing fields that use assets from the main game. These varied from tower defense variations to role-playing games based on the iconic Final Fantasy series.\nThe inclusion of map objectives is a subtle way of keeping matches snappy. Cursed Hollow, for example, not only requires players to beat a path to the enemy\u2019s stronghold but also to collect Tributes for the menacing Raven Lord. Gather three of these trinkets before your adversaries can, and their defenses will take a massive hit. Similarly, control over places of worship in the Sky Temple will cause laser beams to tear through your opponents\u2019 fortresses, speeding their destruction. Consequently, it\u2019s impossible to turtle \u2014 a notoriously ineffective strategy involving heavy defense with little to no offensive play \u2014 the way you might in a game of Dota 2 or League of Legends.\nHeroes of the Storm differs from the competition in other areas as well. In-match gold and items have been replaced by talents, which can be selected on-the-fly to change your loadout. Many of these adjust how existing skills and attacks function, while others introduce new variations \u2014 panda girl Li Li can choose between an area-of-effect heal or a damage-dealing dragon, to give an idea. All of this lends wonderfully to the fast-paced tempo of the game. The only caveat? You need to earn access first.\nSimilar to League of Legends, Heroes of the Storm features a persistent leveling system of sorts where you can advance both the heroes you\u2019ve purchased and your account itself. Leveling up the former allows you to unlock new tiers in their talent trees, amass gold, and even new cosmetic variations. Leveling up the latter grants you more general advantages: additional slots for daily quests, gold, and more free heroes to try.\nAll of this feeds elegantly into the cycle of covetousness that Blizzard has installed. You don\u2019t have to finish the daily quests, nor do you have to level individual heroes. But if you do, you earn opportunities to experiment with new ideas, new characters, new looks, new ways to play the game. It\u2019s a formula that Blizzard has been working on for years now \u2014 World of Warcraft and Hearthstone both boast similar systems \u2014 and it is being used to great effect here.\nWhat\u2019s even more intriguing is how the developers seem to be working to minimize what is the worst part of the genre: the toxicity of its communities . Anyone who has spent any time playing Dota 2, League of Legends, or any of the other variations that currently exist today, can probably attest to the snarling fury that subsumes these games. People get angry when they play. Extremely angry. Racial slurs, sexist insults, personal attacks, and threatening behavior all mix together in a noxious stew of pure hate.\nThis isn't a 'League of Legends' killer\nHeroes of the Storm mitigates some of this by cutting off communications with the opposing team, reducing interactions to, at most, a last-minute \"good game\" at the end of the battle. The design choice parallels Blizzard\u2019s controversial approach with the free-to-play card game Hearthstone , which completely eliminates conversation in favor of emotes, a decision many seemed happy to see . The limited dialogue between teams can help to reduce even intra-team griefing; it\u2019s harder to lose your temper when you can almost pretend that the opposing side are just extremely clever AI characters.\nThere are other smaller touches, too. Kills are team-based affairs; Heroes of the Storm makes no distinction between who contributed damage and who dealt the final blow, preventing arguments about stolen glory. Likewise, multi-kill announcements are player-agnostic, declaring only a team\u2019s achievements instead of one person\u2019s skill. And while Hero League lets players carefully pick their perfect team composition, Quick Matches allow players the freedom to choose their heroes without external scrutiny, or anyone bullying them into decisions. The result is a game that enforces the notion that the team should overshadow personal vanity, a conceit often woefully missing from other similar games.\nHeroes of the Storm isn\u2019t a League of Legends killer, not even close. To be honest, I hesitate to even describe it as a gateway drug to the massively popular genre. Although Heroes of the Storm could serve as an excellent introduction, it feels like Blizzard might be trying to do something more than capitalize on a trend. Instead of a replica, it\u2019s almost like the developer is trying to build a new entity over the same bones \u2014 the same way modern RPGs riff on their bygone predecessors, and how first-person shooters still carry Wolfenstein 3D in their genetics.\nAnd that is definitely a good thing.\nHeroes of the Storm is currently in closed beta, with a full release on Windows and Mac expected later this year. You can sign-up for the beta right here .\n","Title":"How Blizzard is taking on gaming's hottest genre | The Verge","Tags":["gaming","culture","hands--on","entertainment"]}