{"Main text":"How Google Trekker is helping map climate change\nThe Nature Conservancy is hoping high-tech solutions can help save blue oaks\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nAs we arrive at Kammerer Ranch \u2014 a property owned by the Nature Conservancy, near Alum Rock Park in San José \u2014 a very large brown bird swoops up from the hillside. Too big to be a falcon or hawk; not flying like a turkey vulture. A golden eagle, I suggest to Ethan Inlander, a stewardship manager for the Nature Conservancy. Maybe, he says, but he thought he saw some white near the tail. A juvenile? We turn to Kirk Klausmeyer, the third member of our party and a conservation manager at the Nature Conservancy. He didn\u2019t get a good look.\nGolden eagle or not, it\u2019s a perfectly clear day, about 70 degrees, with a slight breeze. The three of us remark on how lucky we are to be out on such a day, though clear, sunny days are the norm out here. Anyway, it's ideal for our short hike with the Google Trekker. Introduced in 2012, the backpack has been used at various places including the Taj Mahal and the Galapagos Islands. The Trekker is derived from Google's Street View trucks and is meant to help keep Google Maps at an advantage relative to its competitors , by making sure Google has more images of more areas.\nThe Nature Conservancy is using the Trekker at the ranch for a different purpose \u2014 to monitor climate change. It's one of several groups that are participating in the Trekker loan program , where people can apply to take the Trekker to \"hard-to-reach places.\"\nit's as though i'd put my tent at the top of my pack and hung a heavy stove from it\nKlausmeyer models the Trekker (The Nature Conservancy)\nThe device itself is unwieldy and comes in two parts: the backpack, which contains GPS, an accelerometer, two monster-looking batteries, and a computer with 256 GB of data; and the cameras \u2014 15 cameras, with a combined 75 megapixels, mounted in a green circle above the wearer\u2019s head. The Trekker is about 40 pounds, but the weight is badly distributed: when I try it on, the camera bobbles as I walk. It\u2019s as though I\u2019d put my tent at the top of my pack and hung a heavy stove from it; my center of gravity is higher, and the bouncy sensation from the cameras throws my gait out of whack. That awkwardness is fine for the dirt roads we\u2019ll be on; I'd hesitate to take the Trekker on a trickier route.\nInlander helps Klausmeyer strap into the Trekker. They will be taking shots of Kammerer Ranch\u2019s blue oaks, a species of California tree particularly threatened by climate change. Though blue oaks are hardy \u2014 they can offset the stress of a drought by tapping groundwater resources once they\u2019re past seedlings \u2014 even they have limits. Computer modeling has suggested that there will be climate stress here, Klausmeyer says. That\u2019s why the Nature Conservancy is using the Trekker now \u2014 to get a baseline picture of how the oaks are doing.\nIn fact, things are already changing. In four sites studied by naturalists \u2014 one of which was the Kammerer Ranch \u2014 there were three times more dead oaks in the drier, hotter areas than at the cooler temperatures found at higher elevations. And seedlings found in the study, published in Ecopshere in July 2014, were located closer to streams than adults, suggesting the new trees were growing in increasingly restricted environments.\nInlander helps Klausmeyer into the Trekker.\nThe Trekker\u2019s 360-degree view should help scientists track how the blue oak populations change over the coming years, Klausmeyer explains. Because the trees are, well, trees, and thus stationary, they can\u2019t simply leave the area as it becomes hotter and drier \u2014 and invasive species may out-compete them.\nonly two-thirds of california's oak woodlands remain\nThat\u2019s a problem because blue oaks protect soil from erosion and landslides. Oak woodlands provide homes for 330 species \u2014 birds, mammals, reptiles, and amphibians \u2014 in California. Acorns, for instance, are abundant food for many animals. Only two-thirds of California\u2019s oak woodlands remain, most of them under private management.\nGoogle will host the images and maintain an archive. The Nature Conservancy plans to use the Trekker for photos of Kammerer Ranch every five years for the indefinite future. And the project probably won\u2019t just benefit blue oak conservation \u2014 since everything along the route will be shot by the cameras, other species may benefit from the monitoring as well.\nWe set out. Inlander and I walk well behind Klausmeyer for a brief trip around a pond, where we startle a garter snake and some squirrels. It\u2019s something of a trial run; the longer collection hike is on a loop of ranch roads across the crest of hilltops. For the longer hike, Klausmeyer is solo; Inlander and I walk the opposite direction on the loop so we won\u2019t be in all the photos. Shortly after we set off, Inlander points at a dead oak. It died recently, he says \u2014 you can tell because it hasn\u2019t been turned over yet.\nThe view from one crest is pure Silicon Valley: San José spreads out below. But as we keep walking, we come along a canyon, and it\u2019s easy to forget how close we are to the city \u2014 all that\u2019s in sight are some oaks, grass, a few deer, and Mt. Hamilton towering above. In the distance, some deer hear Inlander\u2019s and my voices and scatter.\nAt the end of the second loop, Klausmeyer has acquired 2,289 panoramic images. This isn\u2019t the only technology conservationists are using to try to preserve native species \u2014 at the nearby Blue Oak Ranch Reserve, scientists from the University of California-Berkeley monitor a network of sensors and satellites to see the effects of warming, pollution, and the growing urban area nearby. The Nature Conservancy uses drones to monitor sandhill cranes at California\u2019s Staten Island.\nThere\u2019s a reason conservationists are reaching for a high tech arsenal: climate change is a serious threat. In the case of the blue oaks, a 2005 paper predicted their habitat would shrink to half of what it is now by 2099. The species will shift north, and only a third of current conservation areas cover the areas that can provide blue oaks with suitable habitats for the hotter, drier future, the authors write.\nTo say nothing of the hotter, drier present. We talk, as Californians do, about rain, while Klausmeyer packs up the Trekker. I suspect we are done for the season, I tell them. Inlander hopes we are not. It\u2019s a fairly routine conversation \u2014 a kind of Californian ritual, discussing rain and its absence. But I think of it again, later, when I read that last January was the driest in California since anyone began keeping track, in an editorial written by Jay Famiglietti , a senior water scientist at NASA\u2019s Jet Propulsion Laboratory.\nThe data collected by the Nature Conservancy isn't quite a baseline \u2014  the conservationists I was out with would have to time-travel for that.  The climate is already changing, and the changes are already serious. Only about a year of water remains in reserve in California, and groundwater is being rapidly pumped to supply the farmers in the Central Valley. \"In some areas of the Central Valley, the land is sinking by one foot or more per year\" because of the pumping, Famiglietti writes.\nIt's not clear if the current drought is caused by climate change, but climate change is almost certainly making it worse. The lack of rain appears to be part of an atmospheric cycle, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Though, of course, the agency suggests that human-caused global warming may play a role. NOAA's finding is complicated by a more recent paper, published this year in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, that suggests warm and dry years create drought; cool, dry years don't. The current drought is occurring in one of the longest periods of combined severe heat and a dearth of water in the last 120 years, the PNAS paper says.\nThe drought is just one beautiful day after another. It's summery at Kammerer Ranch, even though it's only March. It's not until later that I realize how ominous all that sunshine is.\n","Title":"How Google Trekker is helping map climate change | The Verge","Tags":["report","science"]}