{"Main text":"Report\nI used a robot to go to work from 3,500 miles away\nTelepresence robots let you head to the office from anywhere in the world, but what are they like to use?\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nI have to start this review with a brief confession: I don\u2019t really know any of my colleagues. I started working at The Verge in December last year, but as I live in London, I\u2019ve only ever met the members of our UK team. All two of them. There\u2019s been a few group Skype calls with the New York and San Francisco offices, but for the most part I either talk to people on Slack or over email. This isn\u2019t unusual for a job in the media of course, but my bosses decided that it was time for me to get a little more involved. To have some of that good old-fashioned human interaction. Their solution? They gave me a robot, of course.\nMeet my Double, a telepresence bot from  Double Robotics that combines the fun of a remote-controlled car with the thrill of videoconferencing. It\u2019s best described as an iPad on a Segway because, well, that\u2019s basically what it is. There is a pair of squat wheels at the bottom and a telescoping pole that extends from three feet to five feet tall. At the top of this, there\u2019s a jig for an iPad (sold separately unfortunately), and the whole arrangement is self-balancing. You log in like a Skype call \u2014 either via a mobile app or website \u2014 and then you're presented with controls to move the bot around, while a loudspeaker attachment lets you sound your barbaric yawp over the cubicles of the world.\nTHE first time i actually logged in, no one even noticed me appear\nAt least, that\u2019s the theory. The first time I actually logged in to the robot, no one even noticed me appear. Sure, anyone glancing around the office might have seen my slightly quizzical face pop into existence in midair, but the whole thing was really discrete. This wasn\u2019t like getting suited up in Pacific Rim; I just clicked a couple of buttons, and there I was, operating a robot. I looked around at first but everyone was busy working. Someone at the other end of the office caught my eye, but by the time the video had registered my hasty smile they\u2019d looked away. I tried saying hello, but it turned out the speakers on the bot weren\u2019t working (we eventually had to get a replacement), and I was left on the wall, quietly nodding to myself like the most boring painting in Hogwarts. In the end, I had to settle for messaging the person nearest to me on Slack. So much for the personal touch.\nI may as well have been on Skype\nEventually, I managed to arrange a chat about an article with one of my editors. Again, we had to message beforehand to find a place to talk (chattering in the middle of the office was a no-no), but once we\u2019d settled ourselves in a cupboard, the benefits of telepresence became obvious. That is, I\u2019d forgotten what it was like to actually see a person and hear their tone of voice while talking about a piece of writing. However, if I\u2019d really wanted this advantage, I may as well have been on Skype. At least then I wouldn\u2019t have to make people hold the door open for me as I rolled in to speak to them. The Double was also pretty inconsistent with audio and occasionally introduced slight delays that turned conversations into stumbling encounters.\nThis is one of the problems with telepresence: it\u2019s been around for years, but it\u2019s still not clear why anyone needs to use it. Companies like Double say they offer \"a physical presence at work or school when you can\u2019t be there in person,\" but for most office jobs this is unnecessary anyway \u2014 a combination of video calls, email, and online software like Google Docs is all you need to work from home. Meanwhile, anyone in a profession which does depend on their physical presence will know that even the world\u2019s most advanced robots are laughably inadequate when it comes to things like physical dexterity. It doesn\u2019t help that telepresence bots are temperamental and expensive. Even the relatively simple Double costs $2,499, and that's without buying an iPad to actually make it work.\n\"You're not just passive; you can move around and explore.\"\nDespite this lack of an obvious use case, there\u2019s something undeniably attractive about the idea of being able to be physically elsewhere. Telepresence bots are being sold to hospitals, for example, to let doctors do the rounds remotely (although there\u2019s no concrete data on how frequently these robots are actually used). This same level of interaction could also be achieved if the nurse simply carried a laptop with them, but I imagine there\u2019s something vaguely reassuring for patients if the doctors seem in control. Ken Goldberg, a professor of robotics at the University of California, Berkeley, claims that telepresence\u2019s appeal comes from its sense of empowerment. \"One of the benefits of the robots is that they enhance the sense of agency, of being an agent, in the remote environment,\" he said in  an interview with Spectrum . \"You are not just a passive conversationalist; you can actually move around and explore.\"\nIf the Double wasn\u2019t practical for actual work, I\u2019d hoped that the sense of physical presence would help me socialize more naturally with my coworkers. I\u2019d imagined myself trundling around our New York offices like a sociable R2-D2: snapping jokes, exchanging gossip, and making those finger gun gestures I\u2019ve seen cool people use in the movies. It wasn\u2019t until I actually logged into the robot and looked around the office that I remembered that of course, no one would ever act like this, even in person. A telepresence robot may give you the ability to move around and explore in a remote environment, but you\u2019re still beholden to all the usual social conventions of the 21st century office. People didn't really talk much anyway. Most work was happening in Slack, and so was most socializing.\nThis was my second problem with telepresence: it\u2019s just not that great for getting to know people with. Even if it was normal to be wandering around the office bothering people, doing so using an ungainly robot would be beyond the pale. There\u2019s something about the thought of interrupting people via an iPad on a stick that doesn't seem right. \"I couldn\u2019t be bothered to disturb you in person,\" it says, \"so here\u2019s my idiot robot avatar. Yep, that\u2019s right, you have to talk to me normally even though we both know this is a deeply silly situation.\" It wasn\u2019t like I could use the bot to grab lunch either \u2014 not unless whomever I went with could provide a Wi-Fi hotspot for me and was happy running interference on the sidewalk. Other normal chatting opportunities \u2014 like taking a walk down a corridor for example \u2014 were made impossible simply by the lack of peripheral vision. Between that and always having to turn to see what\u2019s to the side of you, using the Double felt like playing Doom. But in an office.\nPeople were taking pictures. Someone put a hat on me.\nMy triumph, such as it was, came at an impromptu office pizza party. I\u2019d just finished an edit and decided to roll up as everyone grabbed a slice for lunch. I zoomed towards the table as fast as I could and for about five minutes the whole thing was kinda funny. I think. Here I was, a face on an iPad, 3,500 miles away from my colleagues and making jokes about if there was a way for someone to feed me a slice of pepperoni pizza over the internet. People were taking pictures. Someone put a hat on me. Success, right?\nBut, this leads me to problem number three with telepresence, or half-problem number three: the bot you\u2019re inhabiting shapes how people relate to you. It might sound silly, but think about the rolling ball robot that appeared in  the new Star Wars trailer : that thing was onscreen for all of two seconds, but it was long enough for us to think, \"Oh my, that\u2019s a cute robot.\" The Double is cute, too. It\u2019s dinky and kind of earnest looking, and I can\u2019t imagine a manager being taken seriously if they were using one to keep employees on their toes. However, being cute was also beneficial. Because the bot has the motor skills of a toddler, people were happy to help steer me around difficult terrain and winced when I accidentally rolled into a door. A status-obsessed manager might hate people taking pity on them, but for me it was just convenient that they cared. I can see this look-after-baby effect being annoying if you had to base your entire office presence on using one if these bots, but it was certainly helpful in small doses.\nTelepresence might be good in small doses\nOf course, no one\u2019s going to use telepresence in this way, at least not any time soon. If bots of the Double\u2019s calibre do find a place in offices then it\u2019ll probably be as supplementary tools. They won\u2019t be necessary, but they might find a niche \u2014 getting rolled out for international meetings, for example, or when sickness or bad weather forces people to stay at home. I can imagine people joking about \"having to take the bot to work,\" but actually enjoying the experience \u2014 especially if the concept's familiar and they\u2019ve already made friends around the office. Because for all the ingrained silliness of telepresence, there is something deeply satisfying about pressing a button here and having something move, at your command, over there. Extending human agency is a lot of what technology is about, and as the bots get better and cheaper, it\u2019ll become more tempting to give telepresence a try.\nAs for me, I\u2019m happy enough sticking with email, Slack, and the casual voyeurism of Twitter to get to know my colleagues. As mediums of communication, these might lack the subtler cues of face-to-face chats, but at least I can use gifs and emoji when I need to add a little interpersonal pizzaz. When telepresence bots can do the same, maybe I\u2019ll give them another go.\n","Title":"I used a robot to go to work from 3,500 miles away | The Verge","Tags":["report","tech"]}