{"Main text":"Inside Apple's chic new Tokyo store\nFormer Burberry CEO on hand to reinforce Apple's luxury image\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nApple opened its third retail store in Tokyo today. The ninth in Japan overall, the latest store is located in the leafy Omotesando shopping district, where it shares a street with the likes of Louis Vuitton and Gucci. New retail VP Angela Ahrendts visited Tokyo for the opening, in her first official appearance since joining Apple from her previous position as Burberry CEO. Burberry's own Omotesando outlet is located just a few buildings down and across the street from Apple's new store.\nWhat an incredible day in Tokyo. Wonderful to meet so many of our dedicated customers in our beautiful new store. pic.twitter.com\/P42M4rtEK9\n\u2014 Angela Ahrendts (@AngelaAhrendts) June 13, 2014\nThe Omotesando location features a stunning design first seen in the new Stanford, California store that Tim Cook highlighted during the iPhone 5S announcement keynote: three glass walls with a flat metal roof that protrudes onto the street. Unlike the small Stanford store, however, Omotesando has a basement level accessed by a trademark glass spiral staircase.\nApple's other two Tokyo stores are in hip Shibuya and swish Ginza. Omotesando is somewhere between those two areas in status \u2014 a firmly upscale, expensive district with a younger demographic. It's also known for its incredible modern architecture, with labels like Tod's, Dior, and Prada constantly attempting to one-up each other with innovative building designs. The new store opening sees Apple further its image as a luxury brand to be spoken of in the same conversation as the world's most renowned fashion houses.\nHint: Use the 's' and 'd' keys to navigate\nOmotesando's main street is lined with trees. Apple used leafy iconography in its boardings that covered the new store while it was under construction.\nAcross the street is this new Hugo Boss store, which opened earlier in the year. It has an unusual, twisting design reminiscent of a concrete hourglass.\nThe store opened on a strange day of weather in Tokyo, bouncing between scorching sun and torrential downpours. Pedestrians were split between carrying transparent umbrellas to stay dry or parasols to avoid a suntan.\nKeeping the three glass walls spotless is no mean task.\nThe new store has an airy, spacious design, and was surprisingly uncrowded on its first day.\nThe store's centerpiece is this large Apple logo suspended from the ceiling.\nThe spiral staircase is directly below the Apple logo.\nThe translucent spiral staircase made its first appearance in another Japanese Apple Store; the Shinsaibashi, Osaka location opened just under ten years ago.\nThe basement level features the familiar array of tables. It's devoted to third-party accessories rather than Apple's own flagship products, and was already busy.\nA member of store staff assists customers while others film the session.\nStore visitors inspect Beats headphones following Apple's $3 billion acquisition of the company.\n","Title":"Inside Apple's chic new Tokyo store | The Verge","Tags":["apple","photo-essay","design","tech","architecture"]}