{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nLeica is releasing another jealousy-inducing camera, this time featuring a gorgeous, custom design from musician Lenny Kravitz. This isn't a brand new model, just a redesigned version of the existing Leica M-P, but it has a stylish overhaul that makes it look like a worn, premium, and reliable device that you've been toting around for a while. Most notably, the camera's black coating has been intentionally worn away to reveal streaks of the brass underneath along the edges. Additionally, the body's trim is being replaced by black snakeskin, which is also being used for an included camera and wrist strap. You can absolutely laugh at the fact that this is a multi-thousand dollar camera that intentionally looks worn, but when it comes down to it, the custom M-P still looks good \u2014 and, as with most Leicas, it's hard not to want it.\nThis will look great beside your gold Apple Watch\nKravitz's Leica is being sold as a limited edition set, of which only 125 are being made. It'll be packaged inside of a custom case \u2014 also covered in snakeskin \u2014 and will include two lenses, the Leica Summicron-M 35mm and the Leica Summilux-M 50mm, which also appear to feature some intentional wear. Leica hasn't announced a price for the set, but given that it includes an M-P and two lenses, we'd guess that it's probably somewhere around the price of a year's college tuition. (Okay, that's a slight exaggeration depending on the school: an M-P typically costs $7,950, and the lenses go for $2,945 and $3,745, respectively.) Update: Leica tells us they'll go for $24,500.\nKravitz is apparently a known Leica fan who got his start in photography on a Leicaflex, which is how this collaboration came to be. It turns out, in addition to being a musician, an actor, and a producer, Kravitz also founded a design firm. Leica makes it sound like Kravitz himself played a role in designing the custom M-P on behalf of his firm. Kravitz's M-P is being called the \"Correspondent,\" and it's going to be made available in March at Leica stores. Better start saving up now.\nCorrection: the M-P's metal body is made of brass. This article previously misstated its material as bronze.\n","Title":"Lenny Kravitz designed a Leica that's the camera version of pre-ripped Abercrombie jeans | The Verge","Tags":["photography","design","tech"]}