{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nApple is rolling out a major new hardware feature this year with the introduction of what it calls Force Touch. It is a catch-all term for a combination of pressure sensitivity and haptic feedback that you will find built into the Apple Watch and the trackpad of the newly redesigned MacBook. Force Touch is Apple\u2019s hallmark of newness for 2015, but it also finds a home in one of the Cupertino company\u2019s less adventurous machines, the 13-inch MacBook Pro.\nThough it was a mere footnote to Apple\u2019s big event last month, the MacBook Pro will actually play a pioneering role for its maker. It\u2019s going to serve as the device on which many people experience Force Touch for the first time, and it signifies Apple\u2019s intention to make this a standard feature across all of its laptops. Unlike the more glamorous Watch and MacBook, the new MacBook Pro is practical and designed for everyone. Its price isn\u2019t weighed down by a novelty premium, its versatility and power aren\u2019t compromised, and its raison d'être isn\u2019t in question. This is Apple\u2019s most powerful mobile computer, so if mobile computing is a thing you do, this is the laptop for you. It really is that simple.\nLeft: 2013 MacBook Air with original glass trackpad. Right: 2015 Retina MacBook Pro with new Force Touch trackpad.\nThe new MacBook Pro\u2019s design is, to borrow a famous Jony Ive adverb , unapologetically unchanged. Convinced in the superiority of its display, keyboard, and chassis, Apple has kept them all the same as in years past. All the upgrades have taken place within. Everything inside the machine is now faster: the processor, the memory, and the SSD have all been given a speed boost. This dual approach of moving to new technology while sticking to a familiar aesthetic is best exemplified by the Force Touch trackpad.\nThe size and shape of Apple\u2019s new trackpad on the Pro are the same as the classic glass pad that\u2019s been around for years now. Touch it and you won\u2019t notice anything different about its smooth surface. Press into it and you\u2019ll hear and feel a familiar click. It\u2019s the same reliable, satisfying user experience that Windows laptops have been so chronically unable to match. Only the click isn\u2019t real.\nIt touches you as much as you are touching it\nForce Touch uses a haptic feedback system, which vibrates the pad\u2019s surface in a way that simulates the sensation of pressing a button in. In reality, the trackpad is fixed in place and barely moves at all. The sound of the click is simulated just like the sense of motion under my finger, but both feel real. As far as all my senses are concerned, I am clicking exactly as before. Apple has taken one of the last remaining mechanical parts in its laptops and replaced it with a more high-tech version that \u2014 successfully \u2014 recreates the familiar tactile response.\nI came to this review dreading the idea of Apple tinkering with a thing that really didn\u2019t need changing. The original glass trackpad is one of the MacBook\u2019s clearest advantages, and it seemed to me that Apple was tackling a problem that didn\u2019t need a solution. But I\u2019m gratified to find that little has been lost in the transition to an electronic alternative, and there\u2019s plenty to be gained from it \u2014 in the future, if not immediately.\nFor example, the new design means a click at the very top of the trackpad feels the same as at the bottom. The old hinge made clicking easier in the lower half of the touchpad. Another important advantage for Apple\u2019s engineers, claims the company, is that the static pad is less likely to break down over time and takes up a tiny bit less space than its predecessor. While that doesn\u2019t make a difference for me today, Apple\u2019s big design revolutions are built upon small evolutions of precisely this magnitude: shaving off a millimeter here, improving space efficiency there, and suddenly a new MacBook is born.\nClick here for a full gallery of MacBook Pro hands-on images\nAnd yet, the MacBook Pro isn\u2019t the future-facing MacBook. It\u2019s the machine for now, for today, which signals that Apple considers Force Touch a technology that\u2019s mature enough to be deployed widely and capitalized upon through software. That\u2019s the thing that can make Force Touch special: what Apple and its vibrant ecosystem of software developers do with the new pad\u2019s capabilities.\nSo far, practical uses for the Force Touch trackpad\u2019s pressure sensitivity are quite limited. I\u2019ve made a valiant effort to try and use the functions Apple has integrated into OS X, but they\u2019re honestly no more useful or intuitive than bashing out a quick right-click. I can press down once for a click, or push further to get a Force click, which produces a contextual action like a dictionary lookup or a preview of a web link or a document. Even with three distinct settings of \"firmness\" for the regular click, I am never truly sure if and when I\u2019m adding enough pressure to turn it into a Force click. And what\u2019s worse, most apps don\u2019t yet support the feature, which means I\u2019d be wasting my time developing the proper Force Touch habits if I spend most of my days inside unsupported apps.\nThe most immediate benefits of Force Touch on laptops are likely are to be felt when using drawing apps. Inklet was first out of the gate in announcing support for the new trackpad, turning it into a Wacom-like input field for styluses. With force sensitivity, you\u2019re now able to control the thickness of your digital brush\u2019s tip by adjusting how much pressure you apply with the stylus. Apple has already enabled the same feature when signing documents in its Preview app \u2014 even if you just use your finger \u2014 and the latest version of OS X contains the APIs necessary for more software makers to get involved.\nThe true potential of Force Touch is only beginning to be explored\nBeyond practical and artistic applications, Force Touch also has great potential to benefit disabled users. The tactile feedback provided from Apple\u2019s Taptic Engine can be used to help those with poor eyesight by augmenting information on the screen . The trackpad can give small sensory hints and help people navigate their way around the OS X interface. While very little of that potential has yet been tapped, it\u2019s certainly available for both Apple and others to explore. With Force Touch being a prominent feature of the Apple Watch and new MacBook \u2014 two devices that are only just beginning to figure out their best uses and applications \u2014 there\u2019s good reason to expect a wave of innovative applications for Apple\u2019s new technology.\nAs of today, Force Touch is a neat enhancement, but far from a singularly excellent feature that you should go out and buy a new computer for. There are plenty of good reasons to own a MacBook Pro, though, even if they are as familiar as the computer\u2019s appearance. For starters, the Retina display on my 13-inch review unit is simply stunning. Coming from a 2013 MacBook Air, I notice major differences in color reproduction, viewing angles, contrast, and, of course, sharpness. The 2560 x 1600 resolution of the display embarrasses my incumbent laptop\u2019s non-Retina screen. As someone who spends great stretches of time staring into text editors on screen, I really appreciate the crispness and precision of text rendering on this new MacBook Pro.\nThe Retina display is worth the price of admission alone\nOne of the initial stumbling blocks for Apple\u2019s Retina displays was the graphics chip\u2019s inability to handle all of those pixels at once. Intel\u2019s new Broadwell processor promises, as every new piece of silicon does, major improvements in performance, but there are still occasions where the MacBook Pro is simply overwhelmed by the amount of information it has to animate on the screen. This most commonly happens when switching in and out of the Mission Control multitasking overview with a bunch of apps open. I may be willing to forgive such infractions on my MacBook Air, which trades away a sliver of performance for better battery life and a thinner profile, but the Pro is supposed to be the no-compromise MacBook.\nThe comparison to my present laptop is also salient when looking at the new Retina MacBook Pro\u2019s general performance. It\u2019s very fast, right from the start. It boots up in under 14 seconds, wakes from sleep in less time than it takes me to open its lid, and handles multiple apps with aplomb. It can play back the new 60fps 4K videos that YouTube has just rolled out (provided I use Safari and not Chrome). But I can say the exact same things about my Haswell-powered Air, only adjusting the boot time to a slightly slower 16 seconds.\nTo feel the actual benefit of the greater power contained within the new Pro, you\u2019ll have to take on more intensive tasks like video and image processing. Gaming is another obvious power-hungry application, but that\u2019s the one thing I wouldn\u2019t recommend buying a MacBook for. Even lightweight games like Sid Meier\u2019s Starships and Valve\u2019s Dota 2 are buggy and unattractive when played on OS X. The lack of a discrete graphics chip in the 13-inch model is another hint pointing committed gamers in the direction of Windows-based alternatives that will better suit their needs. MacBook Pro users will be more interested in getting creative with Apple\u2019s new Photos app or their favorite audio or video editing application. It\u2019s when these workloads grow large that the MacBook Pro distinguishes itself.\nBenchmarks improve, real world experience does not\nA GeekBench score of 7,001 marks a nice bump over the 6,303 of the 2013 Retina model as well as the 6,057 of my MacBook Air from the same year. But in most of my daily activities, this extra power goes completely unnoticed. The fast SSD storage in the new Pro machine is also capable of ludicrous speeds \u2014 doubling the previous generation\u2019s numbers and achieving a read speed in excess of 1GB per second \u2014 but I am again unable to come up with daily use scenarios that make that apparent. The difference is between fast and ultra fast when handling specific, heavy workloads. A good example is the update to OS X 10.10.3, which took significantly longer on the Air than it did on the 2015 Pro \u2014 but how many times are you transferring and processing that volume of data?\nBattery life isn\u2019t a massive differentiator between the Air and Pro lines. The MacBook Air has the edge during our web browsing battery test, but it\u2019s a slight one: the Air runs for 13 hours and 29 minutes whereas the 2015 MacBook Pro achieves 13 hours and 18 minutes. Mind you, that\u2019s when using Safari for your browsing, and there\u2019s a major drop-off when using Google\u2019s Chrome browser, which chews through the Pro\u2019s battery in 9 hours and 45 minutes. In daily use, I\u2019m finding myself recharging both the Pro and the Air at roughly the same intervals. Pushing beyond 10 hours of use isn\u2019t a problem with either laptop and I can confidently leave home in the morning without worrying about bringing a charger.\nIt's the same old MacBook Pro: as excellent as ever\nI\u2019d be happy to recommend the Retina MacBook Pro on the strength of its display alone. Sure, I\u2019m late to the Retina party, but now that I\u2019m here, I don\u2019t want to ever leave. The new Force Touch trackpad has the potential to be equally transformative, once compelling uses for its pressure sensitivity and haptic feedback are developed. As of right now, though, it\u2019s just a really good trackpad, probably the best there is. It doesn\u2019t feel like an obvious upgrade when moving to it from the MacBook Air, but I do sense a downgrade when going in the opposite direction and having to tap instead of click at the top of the pad.\nApple has deliberately camouflaged its new Force Touch trackpad in the garb of its familiar hardware. It\u2019s even simulating the click in an effort to keep the same trusty feel of the pad that MacBook users know and love. While the company\u2019s confident about the technology, it clearly recognizes that Force Touch applications are yet to come and it\u2019s being honest with its customers by releasing a new MacBook Pro that looks identical to the old one. There really is no reason to consider this new Pro model if you have one of its recent forebears. It\u2019s undergone the annual honing and improvement of specs, but in its essence, it is the same old MacBook Pro. That might be a downside for any other machine, but in the case of the MacBook Pro, it just means that Apple continues to have one of the absolute best laptops in the world.\n","Title":"MacBook Pro review (2015) | The Verge","Tags":["apple","review","tech"]}