{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nAfter nearly two years of teasing , Microsoft finally released a preview version of its touch-optimized Office apps for Windows 10 yesterday. The software maker has been focusing on iOS and Android recently, having released better versions of Office for rival platforms than its own Windows Phone equivalent. That\u2019s changing with Windows 10, and Microsoft\u2019s loyal customers will no longer be left out in the cold . Was the long wait worth it? It looks like it. Microsoft\u2019s new Office touch apps show great potential for Windows 10 apps as a whole.\nI installed Word, Excel, and PowerPoint, after testing the new touch-optimized version of OneNote for Windows 10, and I\u2019m impressed with the early results. After covering Microsoft for nearly 15 years, I\u2019ve seen Office move steadily into a beast that tries to do a million things that could be greatly simplified. Some call it bloated, others call it powerful, but nobody in the industry has successfully challenged its dominance yet, so Microsoft is clearly doing something right.\nThese apps are blisteringly fast\nWhether you think Office is bloated or not, there\u2019s no argument to be had about these latest Office touch apps: they\u2019re blistering fast. They feel lightweight, speedy, and really easy to use, and they\u2019re mostly identical to  Office for iPad and Android. I used to work at various investment banks, so my Office experience is extensive, but these days I only have basic document needs for keeping an eye on my finances, authoring some reports, and maybe the occasional presentation. The desktop version of Office has far too many options for someone like me, but these new apps aren\u2019t as daunting and are simple enough and still functional to get stuff done.\nWord syncs all my documents to OneDrive, or there\u2019s options to navigate manually to Dropbox or other cloud storage that\u2019s synced locally to a PC. While Dropbox is accessible, it\u2019s not as integrated as the Android and iOS equivalents, but it works as you\u2019d expect from File Explorer. All the basic formatting options are present, with options to insert pictures, shapes, tables, and alter headers and footers. There\u2019s even track changes and the usual reading mode to take away all the formatting controls and focus on the text itself. The entire UI looks and feels like I\u2019m using the iPad version, but that\u2019s exactly what I was hoping Microsoft would do.\nExcel and PowerPoint are equally feature rich. Basic calculations, formulas, and the usual formatting options can all be found in Excel, although formula bar controls are currently missing in this preview version. PowerPoint has enough transitions to please anyone wanting to create a flashy presentation, and there\u2019s also inking support for annotations in presentation mode. All three apps offer up enough functionality right now for me to not need to switch back to the regular desktop version of Office, and I suspect that\u2019s the same for a lot of consumers. Obviously, for businesses the requirements are far more complex, but these apps are clearly aimed at quick and easy editing.\nThe only thing that\u2019s missing for me from Word is the ability to use ink. OneNote for Windows 10 has inking capabilities, but it\u2019s not there yet in Word and Excel. It\u2019s a differentiator for Microsoft\u2019s platform, so I can only assume it will arrive before the company ships final versions of these apps. Printing support also seems to be missing, but that\u2019s something Microsoft added to the iPad version fairly quickly after users understandably demanded options to print their documents.\nWindows 10 apps might have great potential\nOverall, these apps feel like a good demonstration of what Windows 10 apps are capable of. Microsoft struggled to create a good set of Windows 8 apps for its launch, and it took developers months to strike the right balance of speed, usability, and user interface to start creating decent Windows 8 apps. It\u2019s probably a good sign that Microsoft has managed to create a compelling version of Office as a Windows 10 app ahead of its launch. Alongside the upcoming Mail and Xbox apps for Windows 10, Microsoft\u2019s latest operating system looks like it will be a lot more promising for built-in apps than initial versions of Windows 8.\nHint: Use the 's' and 'd' keys to navigate\n","Title":"Microsoft\u2019s touch-friendly Office shows great potential for Windows 10 apps | The Verge","Tags":["microsoft","tech"]}