{"Main text":"Microsoft is spending cash to reinvent itself\nSunrise and Acompli are more than just acquisitions\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nMicrosoft has been having a love affair with well-designed iOS and Android apps lately: after  acquiring email client Acompli last year, the software giant announced yesterday that it also  also acquired Sunrise , an intelligent calendar app. Both are available on Android and iOS, but lack versions for Windows. Looking from the outside, you might assume Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer has taken over Microsoft and is  acquiring every  hot new  startup that makes  cool software, hoping for consumer relevance amid a quest for talent. While Yahoo\u2019s investments have been odd at times, with little obvious return, Microsoft\u2019s have made an immediate impact. They\u2019re part of Microsoft\u2019s reinvention.\nThat reinvention \u2014 fueled by CEO Satya Nadella\u2019s willingness to tap the company\u2019s war chest \u2014 is turning Microsoft from a Windows-centric operation into a true software maker. Acompli has quickly transformed into  Microsoft\u2019s cross-platform Outlook email app , and it\u2019s reasonable to assume Sunrise will meet the same fate or stand alone as an Office-branded calendar app. Both of these acquisitions have one thing in common: Office. Microsoft surprised many by making Office free on iPhone, iPad, and Android late last year. It was the first bold move from new CEO Satya Nadella after he\u2019d replaced Steve Ballmer, alongside a strategic partnership with Dropbox to integrate the cloud service more closely into Office. Consumers now have a set of high quality apps that bring some traditional desktop computing tasks to mobile devices with ease. Many questioned how Microsoft would make money on iOS and Android with free apps, while others just praised the fact there was finally a great Office app for free. Either way, the moves  got people talking about how Microsoft is changing.\nMicrosoft's strategy is complicated\nMicrosoft\u2019s strategy runs deeper than just making free apps. While  Yahoo is acquiring startups to bring on developer talent , Microsoft\u2019s Office, OneNote, OneDrive, and Skype apps all prove it has enough expertise to produce some great iOS and Android titles. Nadella\u2019s approach here appears to be initially focused on winning people over \u2014 or \"delighting customers,\" as Microsoft would put it. The reviews of the Outlook app are full of praise, and it has moved quickly up the App Store rankings thanks to word of mouth and the pull of the Outlook branding. The same popular boost happened when Office was originally released for iOS. If you look back only a few years, Microsoft never had any iOS apps. What a difference a bit of urgency and focus makes.\nJust like free Office for mobile devices, acquiring hot startups that are building cross-platform apps that compete with Office is a shrewd business move. Microsoft knows it faces a big threat to its Office software dominance as more and more consumers and businesses move to the cloud and potential rivals like Google Docs become alternatives. Google Docs is nowhere near as powerful as Microsoft Office yet, but for a lot of people that doesn\u2019t matter. Keeping consumers and businesses hooked on Office is a challenge, but very rewarding if Microsoft can nail the experience across Windows, Android, and iOS. Again, this change of pace and focus would have been unthinkable back in the dominant days of Windows, but Microsoft is having to react quickly and change the way it develops software.\nMicrosoft\u2019s Sunrise acquisition is also a good example of how the company is increasingly positioning itself to partner with rivals, rather than try to reinvent the wheel. Sunrise integrates with Facebook, Google Maps, Foursquare, Songkick, and many more. \"We're interested in how we can tap into all these new web services that we don't have to own,\" Bing Director Stefan Weitz told us back in 2012 . Microsoft has now partnered with Twitter, Facebook,  Apple , and more to integrate its search engine technologies with rival services. If Microsoft really wants to beat Google at its own game, then keeping hold of productivity across the relevant platforms and partnering closely with popular web services is key.\nThese two recent acquisitions bolster Microsoft\u2019s cross-platform efforts, but they\u2019ll also feed back into Windows, too. It\u2019s difficult to reinvent something like Windows \u2014 just look at the Windows 8 backlash \u2014 but Microsoft is already working on a  universal mail app for Windows 10 that uses Acompli-like gestures and will work across phones, PCs, and tablets. It\u2019s not just acqui-hires here: Microsoft is grabbing hold of new apps (and maintaining them, rather than shutting them down) before someone like Google comes in and  shakes things up .\nMicrosoft\u2019s future acquisitions could be even more telling to where the company is heading. With  reports of an N-trig acquisition today, Microsoft\u2019s focus on digital inking in productivity could also be bolstered just as rumors emerge of an  \"iPad Pro\" with a stylus . (N-trig makes the tech behind Microsoft\u2019s Surface Pro 3 pen.) Third-party styluses for the iPad have been very popular. While no technology has ever replaced the simplicity of pen and paper, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella speculated recently, during an ABC interview , that the fountain pen won\u2019t be around in a decade. That could signal a big investment in the stylus for Microsoft\u2019s future hardware and software. Microsoft has promised big things for the pen for decades, and it\u2019s about time the company delivered.\nStylus aside, it's unlikely that Nadella is finished acquiring what Microsoft needs to transform its future. By the end of the year we should get an even clearer picture of where Microsoft is taking Sunrise, Minecraft, and potentially N-trig. By that time, it\u2019s a sure bet that Nadella will have acquired some additional talent and apps to  keep Microsoft obsessing over productivity , mobile, and the cloud. You can call it a transformation, reinvention, or revival, but Nadella\u2019s Microsoft \u2014 fueled by cash and a new philosophy for Windows \u2014 is changing quickly.\n","Title":"Microsoft is spending cash to reinvent itself | The Verge","Tags":["microsoft","report","tech"]}