{"Main text":"Muji's amazing body-fit cushions are coming to the US, and you should buy one\nThe best $190 you'll ever spend\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nYou may think $190 is an excessive price for something that appears to be a beanbag, but I am here to tell you that it is not. Muji's body-fit cushions are, let's say, the third most wonderful thing the venerable Japanese lifestyle retailer has ever bestowed upon the world (after Naoto Fukasawa's iconic  wall-mounted CD player and gorgeous  rice cooker ), but for some reason they were never available in the US. That all changes this April.\nThe body-fit cushion was one of my absolute favorite possessions\nThe body-fit sofa, as it's called here in Japan (presumably since you're far less likely to own an actual sofa), was one of my absolute favorite possessions until I threw mine out when moving apartment about six months ago. It had lost its shape a bit over four or five years, and although at one point Muji ran a promotion where they'd replace the internal memory-foam-ish cushion for free, I didn't take advantage. Which was a mistake, but those years of use were glorious.\nIt's so much more than a beanbag. It has a sort of firm squishiness that adapts to your body, and there are two \"settings\" \u2014 the regular way up is the most comfortable seat in the world, while flipping it on its side makes it less resistant and easier to lie on. If you're strapped for space, it's about the most versatile piece of furniture imaginable. You can stick it in front of the TV, turn a corner into a cozy nook, or... well, just watch this video. The possibilities are endless.\nNow I really want another one. Maybe this weekend.\nIf you're in the US, though, you'll have to wait until next month, when they go on sale as a $190 set with a beige or dark brown cover. In Japan, there are quite a few more color options and they're all sold separately, but this is a good start. Place your pre-orders now .\nVerge Video at CES 2015: The Tao Chair lets you workout without getting up\n","Title":"Muji's amazing body-fit cushions are coming to the US, and you should buy one | The Verge","Tags":["tldr","design"]}