{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nVenus might be closer to Earth, but that doesn't make it easier to  explore than Mars. For starters, the surface of Venus has the pressure  of 92 of Earth's atmospheres, to say nothing of the temperatures \u2014  which can reach more than 900 degrees Fahrenheit (500 degrees C), heat  that can melt lead. But two NASA  scientists, Dale Arney and Chris Jones, suggest we skip the surface  altogether and stick to Venus's clouds, according to a report in IEEE Spectrum.\nTo do so would require big policy changes at NASA, which has been  promoting crewed Mars missions as part of its Orion program. But these  scientists say that the atmosphere of Venus, explored by an airship, may  be more hospitable to human missions. Enter the High Altitude Venus  Operational Concept, or Havoc.\n\"it's a chance to do a practice run... of going to mars.\"\nAbout 31 miles (50 km) above Venus' surface, the gravity is only  slightly lower than Earth's, and the atmospheric pressure is about the  same. What's more, Venus is better shielded from radiation than Mars \u2014  exposure to radiation in Venus' atmosphere would be \"about the same as  if you were in Canada,\" Arney told IEEE Spectrum. In other words, floating above Venus' surface is attractive because it's more Earth-like.\nThe vehicle designed to explore the atmosphere is a helium-filled  airship that runs on solar power. The idea is to send a robotic version,  followed by a larger, crewed version. The airship would have to be  folded up inside a spacecraft to get there, with humans following in a  separate vehicle. The plan even includes a suggested space colony,  floating in the clouds.\nThe Venus idea is appealing in part because the planet is closer, and  could provide experience with technology that would be necessary to get  humans to Mars: habitats for crew members, carbon dioxide processing,  aerobraking, and other things required to allow humans survive a trip to  another planet. \"If you did Venus first, you could get a leg up on  advancing those technologies and those capabilities ahead of doing a  human-scale Mars mission,\" Jones told IEEE Spectrum. \"It\u2019s a chance to do a practice run, if you will, of going to Mars.\"\n","Title":"NASA scientists propose sending humans to the skies of Venus | The Verge","Tags":["science","transportation"]}