{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nThere's an eclectic selection of new trailers out this week, from sport and film documentaries to action movies and Victorian novel adaptations. All in all, though, they're pretty good. You can take a look at 12 great trailers from this week below.\nCrimson Peak\nGuillermo del Toro is back with a creepy new film, Crimson Peak. There's something charming about this movie basically just being about a haunted house, and del Toro appears to do a wonderful job of building out its strange little world. There's an amazing cast in there, too: Mia Wasikowska, Jessica Chastain, Tom Hiddleston. It'll be in theaters October 16th.\nMad Max: Fury Road\nThis trailer is meant for audiences in Japan, but who cares? The new Mad Max looks incredible and full of so much energy, and this trailer gets all of that across. The movie comes out May 15th.\nWayward Pines\nExecutive produced by M. Night Shyamalan, Wayward Pines is an upcoming Fox miniseries about a seemingly idyllic town that's concealing a far more sinister reality. It very much feels like a TV special at first, but as the trailer goes on, the world's eeriness really starts to set in. The show runs for 10 episodes and premieres on May 14th.\nGoing Clear: Scientology and the Prison of Belief\nHBO's Scientology documentary has been getting a ton of buzz for what's supposed to be a dramatic and eye-opening look into the organization's highly controversial church. It'll be on HBO starting March 29th.\nMaps to the Stars\nThe latests trailer for David Cronenberg\u2019s Maps to the Stars is easily the best yet, really getting across the obsessive and creepy world of fame that the movie is exploring. It comes out next Friday. (The trailer contains some nudity.)\nWorld of Tomorrow\nYou're going to want to see this. World of Tomorrow is a strange and beautiful short sci-fi film from Don Hertzfeldt, who you might know from (even stranger) works like My Spoon is Too Big. Watch the trailer, then get ready to download it on March 31st. (If you want, you can have Chris Plante tell you a bit more about how wonderful it is right here .)\nSpring\nSpring starts out looking like a lame romance, but keep the trailer running long enough and you'll see that it's something very, very different. This is a horror film, and so far, reviews say that it's supposed to be a good one. It'll be in theaters and on-demand March 20th.\nVictoria\nLong takes are awesome, and the film Victoria takes takes the long take to its totally unnatural and extreme conclusion: a movie made entirely in one (supposedly continuous) shot. You can't entirely get a sense of that in the trailer, but the film's energy definitely comes through. It's supposed to come out in the US in either late summer or early fall.\nFar from the Madding Crowd\nThe upcoming adaptation of Far from the Madding Crowd looks totally beautiful and features what is almost certain to be another great performance from Carey Mulligan. As in the novel, the film is about a woman who takes over a farm and then begins to deal with multiple men all interested in marrying her. It comes out May 1st.\nMy Life Directed by Nicolas Winding Refn\nThis movie isn't directed by Nicolas Winding Refn \u2014 it's actually directed by his wife, Liv Corfixen, and is about Refn, his filmmaking, and their life together. The documentary gives a revealing look at Refn as he makes Only God Forgives, his most recent movie, showing his approach on set and his concerns back at home. It opens February 27th.\nChamps\nChamps is a documentary that looks at the struggles boxers have outside the ring, from the risk of quickly losing their career to dealing with business practices that may not be in their best interest. The film features interviews with a ton of huge names \u2014 both boxers and other celebrities \u2014 many of which pop up in the trailer. The film heads into theaters and on-demand on March 13th.\nKill Me Three Times\nIts early reviews haven't been great, but Kill Me Three Times has some colorful visuals, plenty of wanton violence, and Simon Pegg in a pretty ludicrous role. Even if you're not going to watch this movie, watch the trailer to see Pegg's incredible mustache. Its on-demand starting March 26th and in theaters April 10th.\n","Title":"New trailers: Guillermo del Toro's Crimson Peak, HBO's Scientology documentary, Mad Max, and more | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}