{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nThis was a huge week for movies, with some of the biggest names around putting out new trailers \u2014 and other big names having trailers leak online, too . We've rounded up eight of this week's best trailers for you to check out below (so long as you don't get caught up by putting Star Wars on repeat).\nStar Wars: The Force Awakens\nThere are unreasonably high expectations for the new Star Wars, and yet each trailer only manages to push those higher. That's to say: this second trailer for The Force Awakens is pretty astonishingly good. Click play, then click play again. You've still got quite a while to wait until its Christmas Day premiere.\nAnt-Man\nThis isn't the first trailer for Ant-Man, but it's the one that Marvel fans have been waiting to see \u2014 the one that shows why Ant-Man will be worth watching. It dives into who the hero is, shows what he's like when shrunk down and in action, and finally gets into the comedy of the series. It's out on July 17th.\nTerminator Genisys\nBefore you click play, let me warn you: this trailer focuses on a certifiably crazy plot twist. If that interests you, check out just how insane the new Terminator is going to get. Because it's clearly getting really out there. If not, save yourself a spoiler if you're planning to see this in theaters.\nScream: the TV series\nThe slasher genre doesn't seem like it should work on TV, but at least the makers of the Scream adaptation make it pretty clear that they know that. The series is coming to MTV on June 30th. There are teens, there are murders, there are apps. It's hard to imagine how it'll play out, but it may be interesting to see how the self-aware series does.\nThe Gallows\nDo not click this if you aren't into horror. The Gallows comes from the production house behind Paranormal Activity and Insidious, meaning they know what's up when it comes to making things very, very scary. Not a lot happens in this first trailer, but that's all part of what makes it terrifying. It'll be out July 10th.\nLove & Mercy\nBeach Boys' leader Brian Wilson is a musical genius, but Wilson eventually disappeared from the public view \u2014 and from music \u2014 as he struggled with mental health issues. Love & Mercy takes a look at Wilson's initial brush with fame and how he came out again decades later, having Paul Dano and John Cusack play him at different points in his life. It'll be out June 5th.\nWhen Marnie Was There\nThere's not much that needs to be said when a film comes along from Studio Ghibli: it looks thoughtful, beautiful, and amazing, but anyone who's seen one of the studio's films should already expect that. Ghibli may not make another film after this, so definitely take a moment to check this one out. It's out in the US on May 22nd.\nBallers\nEvidently, this is what happens when you cross The Rock, football, and Entourage. If that sounds appealing, then by all means, check out the trailer for HBO's new comedy, Ballers. If not, stay away from HBO come June 21st.\n","Title":"New trailers: Star Wars, Ant-Man, Terminator Genisys, and more | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}