{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nThere were a lot of big trailers this week. So find a few minutes, scroll down, and make your way through the best of what was out there, from huge films like Mad Max to beautiful stories like The Little Prince.\nInside Out\nIt's been well over a year since Pixar's last movie, but the wait for a new one is almost over. Inside Out is a movie that literally brings you inside of its characters' heads, and Pixar released a first real look at the film this week. It'll be out on June 19th.\nMad Max: Fury Road\nJust try to find a cooler trailer than this. Mad Max is making one heck of a triumphant return next year, and this trailer shows how wild and gorgeous of a ride it'll be. It's out next summer.\nDoctor Who\nIt's that time of year again. The Doctor Who Christmas special is coming out, as you'd expect, on Christmas day. Its trailer was just released yesterday, and naturally, Santa is involved.\nHot Tub Time Machine 2\nIf the Terminator Genisys trailer taught us anything, it's that the best way to make an unnecessary sequel to a time travel movie may be to make everything as crazy as possible. That might just work out here: the trailer for Hot Tub Time Machine 2 revels in the ridiculous possibilities of time travel in the hands of three strange men, including how poorly it can go for them. It'll be out on February 20th.\nThe Gunman\nHere's all you need to know: The Gunman is directed by the same guy who directed Taken. Have fun.\nSan Andreas\nThis trailer has quite the cover of \"California Dreamin'.\" It also has California totally being ripped apart by an earthquake, and The Rock tasked with saving whoever he can amid the chaos. Mostly, he just makes vacant gazes at the destruction, but this is clearly going to be one huge disaster flick. It'll be in theaters May 29th.\nInherent Vice\nPaul Thomas Anderson's latest film is just about here. The movie, an adaptation of Thomas Pynchon's novel of the same name, doesn't make any sense, but instead jumps betweens all sorts of outlandish scenarios and characters, as you may well glean from this trailer. The film is starting to play this Saturday, and it'll open wide on January 9th.\nKingsman: The Secret Service\nKingsman: The Secret Service has a bizarrely understated title. This isn't a dry secret agent movie, nor is it a cookie-cutter action flick: rather, it's a wild, over-the-top send-up of those genres that actually looks like it could be a lot of fun. It'll be out on February 13th.\nThe Visit\nYou aren't going to be able to see this movie for a little while, but you may want to; The Visit is a documentary-style film that follows how the world's top scientists and space agencies would react to Earth's first contact with alien life. You'll be able to hear a lot more about The Visit when it premieres at Sundance in January.\nThe Walk\nWatch out for flying text. The Walk is Robert Zemeckis' re-telling of tightrope walker Philippe Petit's daring (and illegal) performance between the Twin Towers back in 1974 \u2014 a story you may have already seen on camera in the documentary Man on Wire. It's a wonderful story, even if this trailer makes it look like the results have turned out kind of ridiculous. Joseph Gordon-Levitt stars, and it'll be out next October.\nThe Little Prince\nEven if you don't speak French, you'll want to watch this trailer: The Little Prince is getting an animated adaptation, and it looks downright gorgeous. We're looking forward to seeing more.\nThe Last Five Years\nCertain Verge staffers flip out when they hear Anna Kendrick singing, so here it is, the trailer for the adaptation of the musical The Last Five Years. It'll be out next year.\nGirls\nIs anyone not watching Girls? The show is super smart and super funny, so short of not having an HBO subscription, there's no reason not to have at least checked it out. Its fourth season starts on January 11th.\nStill Alice\nStill Alice is apparently generating a bit of Oscar buzz for Julianne Moore this year, which maybe shouldn't be a surprise since she's such a consistently great actor anyway. The film, based on a popular novel, has her playing an Alzheimer\u2019s patient and dealing with the impact on her work and family life. It'll be out widely in January.\nWhite God\nThis is not quite Homeward Bound. White God is about a girl and her lost dog trying to reconnect, but it's also about a canine uprising and political tensions throughout Europe. The film won a big prize at Cannes earlier this year, and you'll be able to see it in the US on March 27th.\n","Title":"New trailers: Pixar's Inside Out, Mad Max, Doctor Who, and more | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}