{"Main text":"7 Comments\nThere are a lot of interesting movies headed to theaters this weekend, from the insane violence of The Purge: Anarchy to the surreal whimsy of Mood Indigo, with things like the ridiculous comedy Sex Tape falling somewhere in between. They're all wonderful summer movies, but this week we really started to get a look at what we'll be seeing this fall \u2014 and things get as spooky as you'd expect. Below, we've got four new trailers and another four of our favorites from earlier in the week.\nOuija\nYou'd think that a movie based on a board game would be designed to sell that game, but it\u2019s hard to imagine ever wanting to buy a Ouija board after watching Ouija. Despite being based off of a game with little story behind it, the movie looks like it may actually pull those threads together into something pretty darn scary. Quite appropriately, it'll be coming out on Halloween.\nAnnabelle\nThere\u2019s scary, and then there\u2019s downright terrifying. The Conjuring easily won its spot as one of our favorite horror movies of last year, and this year\u2019s spinoff, Annabelle, already looks like it\u2019ll be just as creepy. It\u2019ll open on October 3rd.\nThe One I Love\nThe One I Love has been getting warm reviews off of festival screenings, with reviewers pointing to a certain twist that shows up early in the film that changes its dynamic from a quiet relationship story into something\u2026 a bit different. This trailer (fortunately) doesn't show what that twist is, but there are definitely some signs that things turn out a bit different from what the couple expects. The film opens August 22nd.\nKite\nAn adaptation of the 1998 anime, Kite looks to be a seriously stylized and over-the-top revenge film. Oh, and Samuel L. Jackson costars. The movie has a fairly unusual release schedule: it'll be playing on DirecTV beginning August 28th, and then over a month later, on October 10th, it'll head on demand and into theaters.\n12 Monkeys\nTerry Giliam's sci-fi classic 12 Monkeys is being reimagined for TV. The show appears to keep the same general plot of having a character travel back in time to prevent a horrible future, but what actually happens while he's traveling will likely pan out quite a bit differently. It'll head to the Syfy channel in January, and its first trailer was released just this week .\nDoctor Who\nDoctor Who is finally about to return and have Peter Capaldi take over as the Doctor. A first trailer for the new season premiered on Sunday , just over a month ahead of the series' return on August 23rd.\nBig Hero 6\nDisney owns Marvel, and that means we're in store for some smart, hilarious, and adorable animated superhero movies. The very first one is Big Hero 6, which Disney unveiled a long first look at just this week.\nGotham\nThe upcoming TV show Gotham will tell the origin story of Batman without actually introducing Batman himself, but that doesn't mean classic and deadly villains won't turn up. The show focuses on Commissioner Gordon as a young detective, and this new teaser shows just what he'll be up against.\n","Title":"New trailers: 'Ouija,' 'Annabelle,' 'The One I Love,' and 'Kite' | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}