{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nThere's a great mix of new trailers this week, from huge titles like Avengers to horror series like Insidious to smaller films, including a documentary about BASE jumping. We've rounded up 14 of the best trailers from this week, all of which you can view below.\nAvengers: Age of Ultron\nCall this whatever you'd like \u2014 teaser, TV spot, trailer \u2014 whichever way, it's a full minute of almost entirely new footage from Age of Ultron, and it's pretty much all huge action and fun quips. The film finally hits theaters just over a month from now, on May 1st.\nLip Sync Battle\nShould a recurring sketch from The Tonight Show really have been blown out into its own series? It's too late to ask, because the trailer for Lip Sync Battle is already here. It's hard to say how well this will hold up over the course of a season, but at least for now, it looks like the concept should be just as fun as when Fallon's behind it.\nPixels\nI'm not sure what the most ridiculous thing to happen in this trailer is, but there's a lot in the running. Pixels is a comedy about Adam Sandler fighting \u201980s video game characters \/ aliens, including Pac-Man and Donkey Kong. As exciting as it sounds to see some old-school favorites on screen, don't expect this to be the next Lego Movie. It'll be out this summer.\nEx Machina\nThis is as much a victory lap as it is a trailer. Ex Machina debuted at South by Southwest this week, and its newest trailer calls out glowing quotes from just-published reviews. It seems to be well deserved: the film is currently sitting at 92 percent with nearly 40 reviews on Rotten Tomatoes. It'll be out on April 10th.\nThe Hunger Games: Mockingjay \u2013 Part 2\nWe're still quite a ways away from Mockingjay Part 2, but a very early first teaser has already been put out. There's no footage \u2014 just a fiery logo and some dialogue, but it should be enough to get fans excited. Just hang tight. It won't be out until November 20th.\nWayward Pines\nThere's a new trailer out for Fox's upcoming miniseries Wayward Pines, which is about a Secret Service agent who gets trapped inside a strange and likely dangerous town. It looks fun and creepy, and it'll be on TV starting May 14th.\nInsidious: Chapter 3\nA lot of spooky things jump out at people in the latest trailer for Insidious: Chapter 3. Though it's the series' third installment, Chapter 3 is actually a prequel to the prior two films. We're hoping it takes after the much creepier original. Chapter 3 is out on June 5th.\nBefore I Wake\nThis is pretty creepy. Before I Wake is about a boy whose dreams start turning into reality. Naturally, those dreams include some crazy evil nightmares, but they're also juxtaposed with his more pleasant dreams for some cool visuals.\nThe Transporter Refueled\nThe Transporter series is back, this time without any Jason Statham. That's a big loss, but this trailer makes it look like the rebooted series is still all about action and dudes trying to look cool. So there's that. It opens June 19th.\nBessie\nQueen Latifah stars as blues singer Bessie Smith in this upcoming HBO biopic. It looks like a beautiful and intense production, and you'll be able to watch it all on May 16th.\nSunshine Superman\nThe documentary Sunshine Superman follows Carl Boenish, one of the pioneers of BASE jumping. The trailer is filled with gorgeous footage and breathtaking feats, all of which makes this film look like it should be a fascinating watch. It'll be out May 22nd.\nPaper Towns\nYou are either flipping out about this trailer right now or you don't care at all. And that's totally fine, but you should at least get acquainted with it: Paper Towns is the latest adaptation of a John Green novel, following up The Fault in Our Stars. Green has a huge fan base, so you can expect to hear a lot about this as it nears. It's out July 24th.\nHeaven Knows What\nYou should definitely watch this trailer. Heaven Knows What is a dark look at heroin addiction, love, and surviving in New York that's filled with tons of energy. It doesn't necessarily look like a pleasant story to sit through, but it's hard not to want to see more.\nEmbrace of the Serpent\nThe imagery in this trailer is absolutely beautiful. From Colombian director Ciro Guerra, Embrace of the Serpent is about the first explorers of the Amazon in Colombia. Variety says that it's the first feature to shoot in that area of the Amazon in 30 years. The film premieres in Colombia in May. No word on other regions.\n","Title":"New trailers: Pixels, Avengers: Age of Ultron, Insidious, and more | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}