{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nThis week, there are new trailers out for films big and small \u2014 from huge franchises to short pictures, all of which are worth checking out for one reason or another. You can see the biggest and best of this week's releases below.\nFantastic Four\nSo here's something crazy: the first trailer for Fantastic Four came out this week, and it actually looks really cool. That's not to say there was a lot of reason to doubt the cast and crew behind this movie, just that the Fantastic Four movies from the 2000s didn't go over very well. It looks like a lot more care has been taken this time around. The reboot will be out on August 7th.\nTerminator Genisys\nThis is just a short commercial, but it has some better footage than you'll find in the next Terminator's actual trailer (e.g. that T-1000 walking out of the flames is pretty sweet). The movie is scheduled for a July 1st release.\nDivergent: Insurgent\nI have strong doubts about this movie making any sense, but maybe that doesn't actually matter. This trailer is so ridiculous that it's kind of great, and it definitely looks cool. Unless they reconsider and decide to use this footage for a prog-rock music video, the film will be in theaters March 20th.\nThe Man with the Iron Fists 2\nYeah, it may be a direct-to-DVD \/ Blu-ray \/ VOD movie, but it's a martial arts movie that stars and is co-written by RZA, so don't act like you aren't at least a tiny bit interested. It'll be out April 14th.\nChild 44\nTom Hardy, Noomi Rapace, and Gary Oldman all star in Child 44, which are three good reasons to see how it looks. Hardy stars as a scorned secret police agent in Soviet Russia who ends up hunting down a serial killer who's been going after children. It'll be in theaters April 17th.\nMadame Bovary\nMia Wasikowska is a wonderful actor, so it's definitely worth checking out this adaptation of Madame Bovary, which has her as the star. The film will be in theaters sometime this summer.\nOscar-nominated live-action shorts\nHere's something a little different than what you usually see in theaters: each year, just before the Oscars, Shorts HD grabs all of the Oscar-nominated short films and puts them back to back for theatrical screenings. Above is the trailer for the live-action shorts.\nOscar-nominated animated shorts\nShorts HD does the same thing for the animated shorts that receive Oscar nominations. This is always a fun one to see because of how many totally different art styles and storytelling approaches usually turn up. Both the animated and live-action shorts will start playing in theaters January 30th and head on-demand in February.\nTed 2\nSeth MacFarlane's gross-out comedy Ted is getting a sequel this year, and its first trailer came out this week. You should definitely watch if you like Seth MacFarlane, the original Ted, or penis and sperm jokes. That all said, it's kind of surprising to see that Ted 2 also appears, in part, to try to provide social commentary about equality. We'll see how well that pans out when the film is released on June 26th.\nWet Hot American Summer: First Day of Camp\nOkay, there's not actually anything to this teaser, but who cares? Somehow, the film's amazing cast is getting back together, and we'll be able to see it all on Netflix in the not-too-distant future.\n","Title":"New trailers: Fantastic Four, Terminator Genisys, Insurgent, and more | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}