{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nThere may only be one trailer that really matters this week , but every other movie still has to try. In fact, we still got a bunch of great trailers this week \u2014 in particular, a first glimpse at Jurassic World and some new looks at a couple big comedies. Head down below to see seven of the best that came out this week.\nStar Wars: The Force Awakens\nNo description needed. The first trailer for The Force Awakens is here, and it looks amazing. Go watch it if you haven't already. And if you have, maybe just watch it again.\nJurassic World\nSay what you will about a genetically modified dinosaur, but the first trailer for Jurassic World actually looks pretty cool. More than ever, it's turning into a straight monster movie, and that sounds like a pretty great way to continue this franchise. The movie comes out on June 12th.\nThe Interview\nThe final trailer for Seth Rogen and James Franco's The Interview looks appropriately ridiculous for a film about the two of them attempting to assassinate Kim Jong-Un. It's a goofy comedy, but with the subject matter, it pretty much has to be. It'll be released on Christmas.\nPan\nThis could turn out to be a pretty fun adventure. Pan offers an origin story for J.M. Barrie's classic character, showing Peter's first trip into Neverland and some incredibly colorful landscapes. The movie has some great stars on board, including Hugh Jackman, who plays an appropriately creepy Blackbeard. It'll be out on July 17th and is playing in 3D.\nKingsman: The Secret Service\nDon't take this film's exceedingly bland name the wrong way. Kingsman isn't another generic action flick; it's a totally over-the-top spy comedy that knows all the tropes and decides to have some fun with them. It stars Colin Firth and also has Michael Caine and Samuel L. Jackson. It'll be out in the UK on January 29th and in the US a few weeks later.\nStrange Magic\nGeorge Lucas is behind the story for Strange Magic, a fairy-tale musical that's coming out on January 23rd. It's an animated film that's definitely aimed at kids, but it's clearly meant to be an eccentric and fun one \u2014 the movie looks like it's filled with upbeat, classic hits that have somehow invaded its strange world.\nTop Five\nChris Rock's Top Five seems to be winning over everyone who sees it. The film is about an actor trying to recover his career, but it also seems like it leaves things simple enough to give Rock and his incredible costars plenty of room to play around. It'll be out on December 12th.\nHome\nIt's definitely a kids movie, but Home still looks like a nice spin on an alien invasion. Plus, it has Rihanna voicing its hero. It opens next year on March 27th.\n","Title":"New trailers: 'Star Wars,' 'Jurassic World,' 'The Interview,' 'Pan,' and more | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}