{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nPhablet.\nIt's the worst word, a word only spoken with an apology \u2014 or maybe with a proviso. \"I hate saying this word, but it's the only way to describe this thing.\"  But it's just a word. And like all good words, it accurately connotes the thing you want to reference. It's more economical than \"gigantic phone\" and, honestly, more accurate. A phablet is not a phone; it's something else.\nIn fact, there's a certain satisfaction in using it. When a word not only refers to a thing but also itself feels just as unwieldy as that thing, that is a good word. A powerful word, a word that gets things done and isn't worried about how silly it looks doing it.\nThe Nexus 6 is a phablet.\nIt's also the showcase for the newest version of Android, 5.0 Lollipop. As with other Nexus devices, it will likely be one of the only phones to run Android without extra, unwanted software you get from carriers and manufacturers. That's a big deal for some people. Assuming you aren't put off by the size or the $649 off-contract pricing. Assuming that you don't really want just a phone.\nBecause the Nexus 6 isn't a phone. It's a phablet.\nRead our full review of Android 5.0 Lollipop\nThe Nexus 6 is taller, wider, and thicker than either the iPhone 6 Plus or the Samsung Galaxy Note 4. That's in large part because the Nexus 6 has a larger screen, at about 6 inches diagonal. It's also pretty thick, sloping from a thinner edge around the bottom and sides to 10mm near the top. The Nexus 6 is essentially a blown-up version of the Moto X , and so it shares almost all of its design language.\nI'm not sure I agree with that design choice. Both phones have a gentle curve on the back and a nice \"dimple\" in the center where you can rest your finger. The two combine to make a device that is designed more to nestle in your hands than feel slim in your pocket. There's something admirable about Motorola's clear and consistent design vision for its devices, but at this size it starts to break down. I can't help but wonder whether there's wasted space inside it.\nIt feels great in two hands, not so much in one pocket\nUnlike the Moto X, the back on the Nexus 6 is plastic, I have the white model that is probably best described as having an \"eggshell\" kind of feel and color. It's smooth without being glossy and so far has resisted both scratches and discoloration. The power and volume buttons are thankfully located in a humane position on the right of the device, reachable with your thumb. It looks a little weird, and I still hit the wrong button sometimes despite the differentiated etching on the power button, but it works.\nJust so I'm super clear: the only time you can really use this phablet one-handed is when you're just scrolling through a web page or an ebook with your thumb. For everything else, accept that it's a phablet and you're going to use two hands.\nA gigantic Moto X\nUnlike its smaller sibling, the Moto X, the Nexus 6 has two front-facing speakers. They are loud. Once I accidentally put the phone up to my ear when Google Now was about to speak in its Outside Voice, and I damn near damaged my eardrum. Still, these won't replace your Jambox: at high volumes it can begin to sound a little tinny. But if the only phone that beats you in terms of sound quality and volume is the HTC One M8, you're in good company.\nLet's get back to the screen, whose size is really the whole reason for this phone's existence. The resolution on the 6-inch screen is 1440 x 2560, which at 493ppi sits between the iPhone 6 Plus and the Note 4 in terms of pixel density. But whatever, the pixels are tiny and even if you go hunting for them, you won't find them. Crazy world we live in, but this kind of \"Retina Plus\" pixel density is table stakes now.\nLiving with a giant-screened phablet takes some getting used to, but it\u2019s nearly impossible to go back once you do. So many of the foibles of smartphones become lessened or eliminated simply because there\u2019s simultaneously more space on the screen and many of those things are bigger and easier to tap. It\u2019s easier to show stuff on your phone to other people, it\u2019s easier to turn it into a reading and movie-watching gadget, and it\u2019s way easier to type on.\nThe screen is very good, but it also comes with its own peculiar set of tradeoffs. Tuning the color on AMOLED screens to match what most people actually want is notoriously hard, and, to its credit, Google has landed on settings that don't oversaturate colors or look too dim. Nitpickers will notice a very subtle color shift when you tilt the phone left to right, especially on whites. If you\u2019re a nitpicker, there\u2019s your barely-visible-to-the-eye nit.\nBut that's a tradeoff I'm willing to make to get a new feature in Lollipop called \"Ambient Display\" that pops up your notifications as they come in without powering on the entire screen. It\u2019s essentially an extension of what Motorola did before, but on stock Android it just shows your entire lockscreen - albeit in black and white, which saves power.\nBattery life is good by phone standards, but maybe only fair by phablet standards. The Nexus 6 has a 3220 mAh battery, which in my week or so with the device initially lasted a solid day and a half. Very heavy use did make it die out after 14 hours or so, while lighter use let me push it to two days. I'd say that battery life seems a little inconsistent, but really I can\u2019t judge yet even after a week of using it. For one thing, the software may not be final, but the real problem is that I\u2019m just seeing completely different results day by day.\nThe bottom line, though, is that you shouldn\u2019t have a problem lasting through an entire day \u2014 for a phablet, I\u2019d like to see that the number consistently reach into the next morning. There is a battery saver mode (finally) built into Android now, which limits some features and turns off background data. It also turns the menu and button bars an aggressive shade of orange. If you happen to have the included fast charger (or anything that can pump out more voltage than a standard USB charger), you can add a few hours of charge in just 15 minutes.\nAll day battery, but maybe not much more\nIf I have any complaints about the performance of the Nexus 6, they hopefully stem from the fact that I'm not yet using the build of Android that will come on retail devices. Everything from scrolling to app launching to games is mostly smooth and snappy thanks to the 2.7GHz quad core Snapdragon 805 processor and 3GB of RAM. That is, everything is fast until it's not \u2014 I'm getting intermittent and infuriating pauses in certain tasks. The new multitasking \"Overview\" screen and the camera in particular can inexplicably lag for a second or more. Google's Android team assures me that this is not normal, and I'm dearly hoping they're right: excepting those pauses, the Nexus 6 is super fast. (An OS update was pushed out the night before this review was published, but I haven\u2019t received it yet.)\nMy initial impressions of the camera were that it was the best that's ever shipped on a Nexus device. After using it quite a bit more, I can unequivocally say that's true. But that's also not saying very much, since past Nexus cameras have been consistently bad. This 13-megapixel sensor seems like it's identical to the one found in the 2014 Moto X, but with stabilization.\nThe camera app feels a little spartan\nIn good light, it's able to get shots decently fast and the results are sharp. But even with OIS, low light can be a little bit of a challenge \u2014 though again, even a thoroughly average phone camera is 2014 is a win if you're grading on the Nexus curve. It doesn't hold up to the best that Samsung and Apple can do, but it shouldn\u2019t cost you many shots either. One thing I find curious is the Google Camera software, which lacks features like slow motion video, time lapse, and all those built-in image effects. Theoretically, the new APIs that Lollipop gives to developers will mean that a third-party camera app will be able to fill in those gaps, but it would still be better just to have them in the default app.\n","Title":"Nexus 6 review | The Verge","Tags":["google","review","tech"]}