{"Main text":"Obama's plan to save the internet draws bold reactions\nHe's got plenty of supporters, but the opposition's equally vocal\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nToday, President Obama  took his strongest stance yet on the subject of net neutrality. Obama released a statement urging the FCC to reclassify broadband as a utility. In doing so, he answered the call of millions of people who've written the Commission and chairman Tom Wheeler in support of reclassification, which many view as the most sure fire way of keeping the internet open and shielded from the profit-driven interests of ISPs.\nObama's message was a huge boost for net neutrality advocates, but it's unclear how much impact it'll have in the long term;  figuring out net neutrality is the FCC's job , and reclassification would require a GOP-controlled US Congress to play along. Even so, when the President of the United States speaks up, his words carry serious weight. We've collected some early reactions to Obama's plan, and more important voices are likely to chime in throughout the day. Much of the feedback is predictable and calculated, but we're  already seeing some head-scratchers . And should the FCC decide to follow Obama's lead, major ISPs have made it clear they're prepared to sue and take this debate to court.\nEmphasis in below quotations added by The Verge.\nGovernment\nFCC Chairman Tom Wheeler:\nThe President\u2019s statement is an important and welcome addition to the record of the Open Internet proceeding. Like the President, I believe that the Internet must remain an open platform for free expression, innovation, and economic growth. We both oppose Internet fast lanes. The Internet must not advantage some to the detriment of others. We cannot allow broadband networks to cut special deals to prioritize Internet traffic and harm consumers, competition and innovation.\nAs an independent regulatory agency we will incorporate the President\u2019s submission into the record of the Open Internet proceeding. We welcome comment on it and how it proposes to use Title II of the Communications Act.\nIn January, a federal court struck down rules that prevented Internet Service Providers from blocking and discriminating against online content. In May, the Commission sought comment on how to best reinstate these rules to protect consumers and innovators online while remaining within the parameters of the legal roadmap the court established. The goal was simple: to reach the outcomes sought by the 2010 rules. We sought comment on using Section 706 of the Telecommunications Act, as discussed by the court to protect what the court described as the \"virtuous circle\" of innovation that fosters broadband deployment and protects consumers.\nThe purpose of the Commission\u2019s Notice of Proposed Rulemaking proposal was to elicit comments. In the past several months, we\u2019ve heard from millions of Americans from across the country. From the beginning I have pledged to finally bring to an end the years-long quest for rules that are upheld in court. In May we sought comment on both Section 706 and Title II and I promised that in this process all options would be on the table in order to identify the best legal approach to keeping the Internet open. That includes both the Section 706 option and the Title II reclassification. Recently, the Commission staff began exploring \"hybrid\" approaches, proposed by some members of Congress and leading advocates of net neutrality, which would combine the use of both Title II and Section 706.\nThe more deeply we examined the issues around the various legal options, the more it has become plain that there is more work to do. The reclassification and hybrid approaches before us raise substantive legal questions. We found we would need more time to examine these to ensure that whatever approach is taken, it can withstand any legal challenges it may face. For instance, whether in the context of a hybrid or reclassification approach, Title II brings with it policy issues that run the gamut from privacy to universal service to the ability of federal agencies to protect consumers, as well as legal issues ranging from the ability of Title II to cover mobile services to the concept of applying forbearance on services under Title II.\nI am grateful for the input of the President and look forward to continuing to receive input from all stakeholders, including the public, members of Congress of both parties, including the leadership of the Senate and House committees, and my fellow commissioners. Ten years have passed since the Commission started down the road towards enforceable Open Internet rules. We must take the time to get the job done correctly, once and for all, in order to successfully protect consumers and innovators online.\nHouse Speaker John Boehner (R-OH):\nRepublicans will continue our efforts to stop this misguided scheme to regulate the #Internet : http:\/\/t.co\/O7yNrTZoQs #jobs\n\u2014 Speaker John Boehner (@SpeakerBoehner) November 10, 2014\nIt\u2019s disappointing, but not surprising, that the Obama administration continues to disregard the people\u2019s will and push for more mandates on our economy. An open, vibrant Internet is essential to a growing economy, and net neutrality is a textbook example of the kind of Washington regulations that destroy innovation and entrepreneurship. Federal bureaucrats should not be in the business of regulating the Internet \u2013 not now, not ever.\nIn the new Congress, Republicans will continue our efforts to stop this misguided scheme to regulate the Internet, and we\u2019ll work to encourage private-sector job creation, starting with many of the House-passed jobs bills that the outgoing Senate majority ignored.\nSenator Ed Markey (D-MA)\n\u2014 Ed Markey (@MarkeyMemo) November 10, 2014\nSenator Ted Cruz (R-TX)\n\"Net Neutrality\" is Obamacare for the Internet; the Internet should not operate at the speed of government.\nSenator John Thune (R-SD):\nThe president\u2019s call for the FCC to use Title II to create new net neutrality restrictions would turn the Internet into a government-regulated utility and stifle our nation\u2019s dynamic and robust Internet sector with rules written nearly 80 years ago for plain old telephone service. The president\u2019s stale thinking would invite legal and marketplace uncertainty and perpetuate what has needlessly become a politically corrosive policy debate.\nNancy Pelosi:\nI applaud President Obama\u2019s leadership on #NetNeutrality . We must ensure fair & equal access to the Internet! http:\/\/t.co\/g87LMKT67c\n\u2014 Nancy Pelosi (@NancyPelosi) November 10, 2014\nBroadband providers\nComcast:\nComcast fully embraces the open Internet principles that the President and the Chairman of the FCC have espoused -- transparency, no blocking, non-discrimination rules, and no \"fast lanes\", which is the way we operate our network today.  We continue to believe, however, that section 706 provides more than ample authority to impose those rules, as the DC Circuit made clear.\nComcast and cable companies (along with the telcos) have led the broadband revolution, being the first to roll out America\u2019s fastest broadband speeds across the country.  As the White House itself acknowledged in its broadband report in 2013, this only happened because we were not subject to the intrusive regulatory regime designed for a different era.\nTo attempt to impose a full-blown Title II regime now, when the classification of cable broadband has always been as an information service, would reverse nearly a decade of precedent, including findings by the Supreme Court that this classification was proper. This would be a radical reversal that would harm investment and innovation, as today's immediate stock market reaction demonstrates.  And such a radical reversal of consistent contrary precedent should be taken up by the Congress.\nThe internet has not just appeared by accident or gift \u2014 it has been built by companies like ours investing and building networks and infrastructure. The policy the White House is encouraging would jeopardize this engine for job creation and investment as well as the innovation cycle that the Internet has generated.\nVerizon:\nVerizon supports the open Internet, and we continue to believe that the light-touch regulatory approach in place for the past two decades has been central to the Internet\u2019s success.\nReclassification under Title II, which for the first time would apply 1930s-era utility regulation to the Internet, would be a radical reversal of course that would in and of itself threaten great harm to an open Internet, competition and innovation. That course will likely also face strong legal challenges and would likely not stand up in court. Moreover, this approach would be gratuitous.\nAs all major broadband providers and their trade groups have conceded, the FCC already has sufficient authority under Section 706 to adopt rules that address any practices that threaten harm to consumers or competition, including authority to prohibit \u2018paid prioritization.\u2019 For effective, enforceable, legally sustainable net neutrality rules, the Commission should look to Section 706.\"\nAT&T:\nToday\u2019s announcement by the White House, if acted upon by the FCC, would be a mistake that will do tremendous harm to the Internet and to U.S. national interests. It is a complete reversal of a bipartisan policy that has been in place since the Clinton Administration\u2014namely, to treat Internet access as an information service subject to light-touch regulation.  This classification of Internet service has been upheld by the Supreme Court and has enjoyed strong Congressional support for nearly a generation.  Now, with one statement, the White House is telling the FCC to ignore this precedent and to instead impose on the entire Internet\u2014from end to end\u2014 onerous government regulation designed in the 1930s for a Bell phone monopoly that no longer exists, not for a 21st century technology.  This will have a negative impact not only on investment and innovation, but also on our economy overall.\nFor a generation, the Internet has been an American success story.  Light-touch regulation has encouraged levels of investment unprecedented by any industry and spawned incredible innovation.  Today\u2019s action puts all of that at risk \u2013 and puts it at risk not to remedy any specific harm that has occurred.  Instead, this action is designed to deal with a hypothetical problem posed by certain political groups whose objective all along has been to bring about government control of the Internet.  The White House is proposing to put the Internet and our economy at risk as a result of such political pressures.\nWe feel the actions called for by the White House are inconsistent with decades of legal precedent as well as Congressional intent.  Moreover, if the government were going to make such a momentous decision as regulating the entire Internet like a public utility, that decision is more properly made by the Congress and not by unelected regulators without any public record to support the change in regulation.  If the FCC puts such rules in place, we would expect to participate in a legal challenge to such action.\nUSTelecom:\nThe president\u2019s call for public utility regulation of the Internet, a shift that will redefine the Internet, insert the government deeply into its management and invite other countries to do the same, is contrary to the best interests of the nation and America\u2019s technology future. At a time when broadband providers are operating in conformance with the very open Internet principles that the president supports, it is baffling why he would risk continued broadband investment, deployment, economic growth and job creation by asking the FCC to reverse course on the very successful bipartisan policy that has now been in place for more than a decade.\nThe court has indicated that the objectives the president seeks can be achieved under the light touch regulatory approach of Title I, and there is a broad consensus on the goals. Such a radical shift in the legal foundation for broadband Internet services will bring strong legal challenges from across the broadband industry. We hope the commissioners will be careful to consider the president\u2019s proposal in the context of their statutory responsibility to act independently, and we look forward to continuing to work with them toward achieving a result that is consistent with both the president\u2019s objectives and the law.\nTechnology \/ apps\nNetflix:\n\u2014 Netflix US (@netflix) November 10, 2014\nFirefox:\nWe stand for the open Web & are thrilled to hear @WhiteHouse 's plan to protect #NetNeutrality on our 10th anniversary http:\/\/t.co\/JqyPD1fRBC\n","Title":"Obama's plan to save the internet draws bold reactions | The Verge","Tags":["policy","us-world","tech"]}