{"Main text":"TL;DR\nOur favorite reviews of Melanie's Marvelous Measles\n\"The way I see it, if they go blind or die, it was meant to be. No more silly, man-made interference with nature for my family!\"\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nMeasles sickens and kills people around the world every year. But Stephanie Messenger, author of Melanie's Marvelous Measles , feels we're being way too nervous about exposing our children to preventable illnesses that could make them wretchedly uncomfortable, blind, or dead. From her author information on Amazon:\nMelanie's Marvelous Measles was written to educate children on the  benefits of having measles and how you can heal from them naturally and  successfully. Often today, we are being bombarded with messages from  vested interests to fear all diseases in order for someone to sell some  potion or vaccine, when, in fact, history shows that in industrialized  countries, these diseases are quite benign and, according to natural  health sources, beneficial to the body. Having raised three children  vaccine-free and childhood disease-free, I have experienced many times  when my children's vaccinated peers succumb to the childhood diseases  they were vaccinated against. Surprisingly, there were times when my  unvaccinated children were blamed for their peers' sickness.\nMy dad had measles as a kid; he was born before the push for vaccination started in 1963. Dad didn't have marvelous measles \u2014 he had miserable measles, and he didn't much enjoy the other childhood diseases he caught, either. I was, of course, vaccinated; my father didn't see why I should suffer, as he is a good father (full disclosure: we are related; my four younger siblings are also fully vaccinated). That puts my dad ahead of Stephanie Messenger and the other abusive parents who are willing to let their children risk death \u2014 and have other, vulnerable people risk infection \u2014 because they have been taken with the naturalistic fallacy . (By the way: arsenic is natural, but I'd hesitate before giving it to a kid.)\nGotta hear both sides though! Here's what the five-star reviews say about Melanie's Marvelous Measles:\nFinally!  A children's book with an agenda I can get behind! I always thought I  loved kids until I actually had one of my own and boy was I wrong! I  researched anything and everything I could possibly do to get rid of the  little brat, but I didn't want to be arrested for murder and childhood  cancer is just too darn unpredictable. Fortunately, I stumbled upon  \"Melanie's Marvelous Measles,\" and learned that there is a huge  community of people who hate children as much as me! Thanks to Melanie, I  was able to ignore my pediatrician's recommendations to vaccinate my  daughter before our trip to Disney World, all while acting like I want  what is \"best\" for my child.\n- brittany\nThe  author explores the wondrous theme of how highly contagious, deadly  diseases are beneficial in nature, such as through natural selection.  They can also be beautiful. Little-known fact: Georges Seurat's La  Grande Jatte was inspired by the pretty spots he saw on the faces of  dying Parisians before the advent of that dastardly measles vaccine.  Killing yourself, your children, and others is our right as Americans.  Thank the gods for authors willing to tell this beautiful story and help  kill children.\n","Title":"Our favorite reviews of Melanie's Marvelous Measles | The Verge","Tags":["tldr","science"]}