{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nAfter nearly two years in the making, a charity auction orchestrated by Jony Ive, Bono, and designer Marc Newson is set to begin this Saturday. While Apple has worked with Bono's Product Red charity in the past, Saturday's auction takes Ive's involvement much further: working with Newson, the two curated and customized over 40 different items, from chairs, to cars, to Apple products, all of which will go up for sale.\nThe auction is being run by Sotheby's, and is expected to raise over $2 million toward battling AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria. \"Red is making a difference in the lives of millions of people and we're humbled to make this contribution to such an important and worthy cause,\" Ive says in a statement. In fact, we actually ran into Ive at the exhibit. He didn't share the secrets behind curating such an eclectic, yet coherent collection, but he did say \"It took a long time. It was hard work.\"\nEvery item up for auction has either been selected by the duo of designers, customized by them, or completely created by them. The final category includes a stunning Leica camera that's been completely remade with a freckled aluminum design that screams of Ive's touch. The pair created an incredibly sleek and slim metal desk as well, which is marked by stonelike imprints along its top.\n\"Each piece represents the value of thoughtful design,\" Ive says. The collection of items is certainly eclectic, ranging from lamps to a cosmonaut suit, but Ive suggests that there's a coherency to looking at it as a whole: \"What we create for each other is not only a comment on our culture, but of course in many ways defines it.\"\nNearly all of the products are now on exhibition at Sotheby's in New York, where they can be viewed until 5PM today and between 10AM and 1PM tomorrow. Below, you can see some of the most stunning, most intriguing, and most exciting objects that'll be up for auction Saturday night.\nHint: Use the 's' and 'd' keys to navigate\nDon't expect gold EarPods to match your gold iPhone anytime soon: these redesigned headphones are marked as one of a kind. Then again, they're also made of 18k rose gold.\nDesigned by Ive and Newson, the one-of-a kind Red Desk is meant to look like it was made from a single, flowing piece of aluminum. It's over 8 feet long, but it has an incredibly thin and stylish profile.\nJony Ive says he spent nine months and used 55 engineers to create this custom Le\nYou won't want to wear this Stormtrooper mask around: aside from eyepieces that look fairly opaque, it's signed right across the forehead by George Lucas.\nYou can probably guess how Ive and Newson customized this table and its matching chairs. Sotheby's has the entire set displayed as though it were out of an IKEA showroom, though you're far from encouraged to lounge.\nA variation on one of Ive's existing designs, this glossy red Mac Pro is hard to look away from \u2014 even if it does barely take up any space.\nThis Zvezda Cosmonaut suit from 1990 is no replica: it was actually worn on a mission into space.\nA stylish Olivetti Valentine typewriter from 1969, including its original box and matching red carrying case.\nThis Braun hi-fi unit might look just a little bit familiar: it was created by Dieter Rams and inspired the look of Apple's old Podcast app.\nA red-and-white dress by Azzedine Alaïa flows down into a long stream of ruffles.\nNearly three dozen Louis Vuitton handbags and probably quite a few trinkets of jewelry can be stored inside the Marilyn Trunk. Though its multicolored patterns may be uncommon among the auction items, its white exterior and red interior make it fit in perfectly.\nIve and Newson didn't touch this one. It's just a gorgeous, bright-red Fiat 600 Jolly from 1959.\nThis bizarre-looking creation is no statue: it's a thermal window meant for the US Space Shuttle, which Ive and Newson have created a custom stand for.\n","Title":"Paint it Red: the most stunning designs from Jony Ive and Marc Newson's charity auction | The Verge","Tags":["apple","photo-essay","design"]}