{"Main text":"Panasonic's new security camera doesn't care if you have Wi-Fi\nThe Nubo is the first home security camera with LTE\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nHome  security cameras such as Dropcam let you discreetly monitor your home and surroundings from virtually any device. But they generally require a strong Wi-Fi signal or hardwired ethernet to function, which isn't always available in the locations that you might want to mount the camera. Panasonic's new $250 Nubo camera addresses that problem head on: it's the first home security camera with built-in LTE networking, so it can be mounted virtually anywhere you have a cell signal.\nThe Nubo supports 2G, 3G, and 4G wireless connections, is IP-66 weather resistant for outdoor mounting, can be run off of a USB battery, and has a magnetic mounting system, making it easy to move from place to place if need be. It can shoot 1080p video with its 140-degree wide-angle lens, and has both a speaker and microphone for two-way communication through the camera. The camera also has an infrared detector and LED array for low-light recording. The Nubo's included SIM will work with Panasonic's own MVNO network in Europe (running on Vodafone), with service plans starting at $7-$10 per month. The service plans included cellular connectivity and cloud storage for the footage Nubo captures. It also has built-in Wi-Fi and microSD storage support as fallbacks and can be used without a service plan.\nNubo's service plans include cloud storage service\nPanasonic's Nubo app will work with Android and iOS and lets you watch live video, manage the lengths of clips the Nubo records, and see when the Nubo camera has detected activity. The camera is able to detect people and start recording clips of varying lengths when it does. Those clips are then uploaded to the cloud and accessible from anywhere. It limits resolution to 720p and frame rate to 10 frames per second when connected to LTE so as not to quickly exhaust a limited data plan. Max resolution when connected to Wi-Fi and storing on an SD card is 1080p at 30 frames per second.\nPanasonic says the camera should appeal to both consumers and small business operators. It can be mounted to a food truck, for instance, or a garage that's far from your home Wi-Fi router. Or perhaps you could put it on your RV while camping to make sure your belongings are safe while you go hiking. Most people will probably just mounted it to their main entryway, however, where it will likely be able to access Wi-Fi signals in addition to LTE.\nThe Nubo will initially launch in the UK and Netherlands this November, with preorders starting in April. Panasonic says it will launch the camera in the US and elsewhere in 2015.\n","Title":"Panasonic's new security camera doesn't care if you have Wi-Fi | The Verge","Tags":["tech","mwc-2015"]}