{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nToy Story is coming back for another installment, and original film director John Lasseter is on board to direct. The film will be released on June 16th, 2017. This is exciting, if trepidatious news for fans of Pixar and the series: Pixar has increasingly relied on sequels for big hits, while creating great new properties has been put on the back burner. It's likely that Pixar's move toward sequels is in part a result of being owned by Disney, which would rather see Pixar continue to mine its most successful properties \u2014 of which Toy Story is perhaps the most loved.\nHaving Lasseter on board is a great sign\nLasseter  tells the LA Times that Toy Story 4 will be a love story that picks up where the previous film left off \u2014 with Andy giving his toys to a young girl named Bonnie. The story is being created by Lasseter alongside Lee Unkrich, the director of Toy Story 3, Pete Docter, the director of Up, and Andrew Stanton, the director of Finding Nemo \u2014 so this is truly coming from a team of Pixar all stars. They have also all worked on prior Toy Story films.\nStanton and Lasseter have reportedly been working on a treatment for Toy Story 4 over the last two years. During that time, they brought on Rashida Jones, who has starred on Parks and Recreation and The Office, and Will McCormack, who previously wrote Celeste & Jesse Forever alongside Jones, to write the full screenplay. Lasseter reportedly called them in after seeing the film they wrote together, and because he was looking for a strong female voice. \"They have such a great sense of character and originality,\" Lasseter tells the Times. Galyn Susman, who has been producing Toy Story shorts for Pixar, will produce the fourth film.\n\"We love these characters so much; they are like family to us,\" Lasseter says in a statement. \"We don\u2019t want to do anything with them unless it lives up to or surpasses what\u2019s gone before. Toy Story 3 ended Woody and Buzz\u2019s story with Andy so perfectly that for a long time, we never even talked about doing another Toy Story movie. But when Andrew, Pete, Lee, and I came up with this new idea, I just could not stop thinking about it. It was so exciting to me, I knew we had to make this movie \u2014 and I wanted to direct it myself.\"\nRegardless of your feeling about Pixar's sequels, having Lasseter on board is a great sign. Lasseter's one of the major forces responsible for Pixar's dominance in animation and high quality story telling \u2014 same goes for Disney's resurgence in making well-received films. He's currently both Disney and Pixar's chief creative officer, and he previously directed both the first and second Toy Story films.  Variety is also reporting that Tom Hanks and Tim Allen are on board to reprise their roles as Woody and Buzz.\nEven before today, Pixar hadn't really retired the Toy Story characters. It's brought them back for a pair TV specials and a number of short films, which have been generally well liked. Those specials have been following the toys under their latest owner, which is where one would expect to see them in this fourth film.\nBetween now and Toy Story 4, we know of at least three other Pixar films. Next year will see both Inside Out and The Good Dinosaur, and 2016 will have the Finding Nemo sequel Finding Dory. That would mean two new properties next year, followed by two years of sequels to beloved properties. Of the four movies, Inside Out is the only one that we really know a good bit about yet: Pixar released  a first teaser for it last month , and it's hard not to see it as following in the footsteps of classics like Monsters, Inc.\nWatch: The Verge goes inside Pixar\n","Title":"Pixar is making 'Toy Story 4' | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}