{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nWelcome to Price Check, our weekly post dedicated to sorting through all the new products and deals that we find. We also get a ton of gadgets sent to our office, so consider this the best place for us to tell you about them and where you can find them \u2014 sometimes even for cheap.\nVizio 4K 50-inch TV at Vizio ($750)\nIt seems like 4K televisions get drastically cheaper on a weekly basis, so much so that they've almost become impulse buys. There's no more perfect example of that than this 50-inch Vizio set, which is currently $250 off at the company's website. The only reason to hesitate if you're looking to upgrade to an Ultra HD set is that the content is still lagging behind . Vizio has a really good upscaling engine, though \u2014 it was one of the things we loved when we tested the company's 65-inch model (which you see above). It's the kind of feature that can make the jump to 4K that much easier, especially at a price like this.\nBuy one get one Ubisoft games at Target\nVideo game deals can be huge disappointments. When you see \"two-for-one\" advertised that often means you're going to end up digging through a selection of bargain bin games. Target is running a buy one, get one free deal right now \u2014 but it's on all Ubisoft games. That means you actually have some good options this time, like Assassin's Creed: Unity, Watch Dogs, and Far Cry 4. The deal also extends to Xbox 360 and Playstation 3 titles, too, so it's a great way to fill out your back catalog.\nAutomatic smart driving assistant at Amazon ($79)\nCars have had computers on board for a long time now, but automakers don't always make them easily accessible. A company called Automatic has a solution to that problem in the form of this dongle that plugs right into your car. It reads your fuel, mileage, and engine information, and then works with your phone over bluetooth to add GPS, fuel pricing, and map data into the equation. This brings smarter information and statistics to every drive you take, and Automatic's app can do things like nudge you into gas-saving driving habits. But the biggest headache it relieves is you can finally find out what triggered that annoying \"Check Engine\" alert.\nPanasonic Eneloop Batteries with Charger at Amazon ($16)\nWhether it's a portable power brick or rechargeable batteries, you can never have too much power. And anyone who has a device that still needs AA batteries knows how frustrating it is when you have no spares and the set you're using dies. The easiest way to solve that problem is to grab a rechargeable pack like this one from Panasonic. You'll no longer have to worry about finding the right way to dispose of excess batteries, and better yet, these hold up great \u2014 they can be recharged up to 2,100 times.\nSanDisk Cruzer 16GB USB Flash Drive for $9.99 at RadioShack\nI don't know if you heard this, but RadioShack is on its last legs . The downside to that is that the stores many of us spent parts of our youth in are shutting down, but the upside is that much of Radio Shack's merchandise is being heavily discounted. Take this flash drive, for example, the price of which has been cut down by about 70 percent. Cloud services are great, but if you still need some discreet physical storage, this is the time to buy.\n(Affiliate links are automatically generated by our partner, Skimlinks. For more information, see our ethics policy .)\nLearn more\n","Title":"Price Check: two-for-one games, a smart car accessory, and a cheap 4K TV | The Verge","Tags":["good-deals","tech"]}