{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nWhile shooting in Park City last December for our Top Shelf episode on winter tech , I finally got to test a product I'd waited years to try : ski goggles with a heads-up display. The technology was made by Recon Instruments, a Canadian company started in 2008 as a business school project at the University of British Columbia.\nThe software was a bit sluggish, and the battery only lasted about half a day on the mountain, but otherwise the experience was amazing. Seeing my speed and altitude in real time was thrilling, and the live trail maps completely enhanced my time on the mountain. It was a transhuman kind of experience.\nThe Recon Jet is the next evolution of that experience, and it's much more accessible. It takes that same idea of a heads-up display and moves it to a more portable pair of sports-style sunglasses. Instead of requiring a lift ticket to enjoy it, the Jet works just as well on a bike ride as it does when you're jogging around the block.\nThe company gave me a short demo in our office last month, and it works much better than the winter sports version. That's because the software it runs has been totally revamped, and also because Recon has been working on the Jet for years \u2014 the first time we tried a prototype was when it debuted at Google's I\/O developer conference in 2013.\nAll the information sits just below your right eye in a spot that's surprisingly easy to glance at. The screen quality is vastly improved from past versions, too, and you have more control over the positioning of it than before. Recon doesn't expect you to wear it all day, however.\nThe display wont last all day, but you can detach it or swap batteries\n\"We think the proper way to think about smart eyewear is in an activity-specific way,\" Tom Fowler, Recon's chief marketing officer, tells me. So the team made the Jet with modular hardware. The battery \u2014 which lasts about four hours and can be swapped \u2014 is housed in a unit on one side of the glasses, and the display, touchpad, and all the internals are in a unit on the other. Each are easy to clip off, which leaves you with a big and sporty pair of sunglasses. Even the lenses and frames separate, and Recon sells alternate versions of each piece. The whole package weighs 85 grams \u2014 noticeably heavier than normal sunglasses, but the Jet still feels light. I wasn't worried about the glasses falling off, either, though it's not like I was working up a sweat.\n","Title":"Recon Instruments made sporty smart glasses you might actually want | The Verge","Tags":["hands--on","photo-essay","tech"]}