{"Main text":"Right now, the internet needs your help to survive\nThere is still time for your voice to be heard\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nAlexis Ohanian is an entrepreneur and partner at Y Combinator best known for co-founding Reddit, which has grown to become one of the largest community websites in the world. In recent years, he's become one of the loudest voices in support of internet freedom and its benefit to society. He believes the internet is the most powerful and democratic tool ever made for sharing information, and is a strong supporter of net neutrality regulation.\nToday, I am calling on my fellow founders and investors (and anyone who loves the Internet) to join me in fighting to protect net neutrality .  Internet freedom activists have organized a day of mass action to protect net neutrality on Wednesday, September 10th. On that day, every large company, every startup, and anyone with a blog or website should use tools available here (or create tools of their own) to organize their users to become an army of citizen-lobbyists. The internet needs you.\nFor those who don\u2019t know me, Steve Huffman and I co-founded Reddit, one of the top 50 websites on the internet. I\u2019ve got a webseries here on The Verge called Small Empires . I\u2019m also a partner at Y Combinator, the top early stage investment fund, whose investments include Dropbox, Airbnb, Heroku, Pebble, Twitch, Crowdtilt, Coinbase, and ZenPayroll, among others.\nMost importantly, like most of you, I love the open internet .\nThe internet is where we build friendships, conduct commerce, create and destroy\nToday\u2019s internet is the most democratic vehicle for free expression the world has ever known. It\u2019s an open and free market for small and large businesses, giving any inventor in her garage the hope that she\u2019s creating tomorrow\u2019s Google or next year\u2019s Facebook. It\u2019s where we build friendships, conduct commerce, create and destroy; it\u2019s where we live more and more of our lives everyday.\nWhich is why I take it so personally whenever those in our government try to destroy this place that is so special. We\u2019ve successfully headed off some of these threats before: censorship bills disguised as copyright law (SOPA) and attempted mass surveillance laws disguised as cybersecurity (CISPA). But now we face a new threat, one that would undermine the most basic principles of the internet as we know it. That threat is a legal proposal by the Federal Communications Commission that would authorize cable and phone companies to create a two-tiered internet, with congested Internet slow lanes for all of us and fast lanes for the giants that can pay them . Why would the FCC want to protect cable companies who already face hardly any competition and make 90 percent profit on the internet service they sell us? The FCC has proposed a legally unequal web \u2014 one where those who provide us internet access would be gatekeepers, not gateways. It\u2019s an internet where we\u2019d all need to buy a permission slip (that most of us can\u2019t afford) from Comcast or Time Warner Cable to compete, innovate, and organize equally.\nWe can\u2019t let this happen. Really. This would be a clusterfuck worse than Comcast\u2019s customer service.\nWhy are people in DC even thinking about this, let alone getting to the brink of doing it? Cable and phone companies spend more money on lobbying in DC than oil companies, pharmaceuticals, and most defense contractors. Worse, cable lobbyists go on to hold some of the most senior jobs across the government \u2014 including Tom Wheeler, the man at the top of the FCC. Even though millions of us across the world support Team Internet , Washington, DC is the one place where people cheer for Team Cable.\nThis would be a clusterfuck worse than Comcast\u2019s customer service\nThe FCC chairman \u2014 and the phone and cable companies that are supporting his proposal \u2014 will say they\u2019re actually keeping the internet open, but hundreds of tech companies, countless venture investors, and millions of people see right through it. The FCC\u2019s proposal would explicitly create a pay-to-play internet, a dangerous proposition that threatens the internet you and I love so much.\n","Title":"Right now, the internet needs your help to survive | The Verge","Tags":["policy","us-world","tech","op-ed"]}