{"Main text":"Flowers\nMetal\nNo, I have no idea what \"powder\" means. But thanks to a demo tucked away on the GDC show floor, I know exactly what kind of feeling an immersive nasal simulator can provoke: pure, unfettered fear.\nVirtual reality headsets blind you, but they do it by making the inch of space between your eyes and a screen feel huge. With Feelreal, though, you're just strapping a foam block over your mouth and nose, putting yourself at the mercy of its air vents. It's a gas mask arranged into a little smiling face.\nIn my years of using the Oculus Rift and other headsets, I've become strangely sensitive to the smell of plastics, which I've unconsciously linked to the nausea I felt with early Rift games. The moment I put on the Feelreal, I realized it was going to be even worse. Imagine putting an air freshener in a new car on a hot day. Then imagine burying your face in one of the car's plastic seats. Then imagine the car's driver is navigating some tight curves very quickly. This is Smellovision in the Oculus Rift.\nFEEL HOT\nI got through a grassy field and a rainforest without more than moderate discomfort. And then, for a few moments, the system worked. I was floating towards a waterfall, sun shining on the rocks around me. FEEL WET, a caption promised. The Feelreal's coolers began to chill the air around my nose and mouth, and a moment later, I felt a drop of water hit my cheek. It wasn't natural, exactly, but it was pleasant \u2014 like a cool breeze on the stuffy convention floor.\nAnd then, just as I started getting used to virtual air conditioning, the demo warned me that I was about to FEEL HOT. The micro-coolers turned off, and I felt the equivalent of a hair dryer being held against my mouth and nose. I don't remember what the \"fire\" cartridge smelled like, because I was too busy reassuring myself that no matter what it felt like inside that hunk of black plastic, I wasn't actually being smothered to death.\nArtificial scents have a long pedigree in the world of virtual reality, and they've  certainly been part of successful projects. But they're usually produced in a mechanism more pleasant than a high-tech welding helmet. In 50 years, when we're all locked in  time-dilated mind-jail for selling virtual drugs, a day in the Feelreal will still be considered cruel and unusual punishment.\n","Title":"Smellovision masks are here, and they're basically implements of torture | The Verge","Tags":["gaming","culture","tldr","entertainment","gdc-2015"]}