{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nSnapchat has launched \"Discover,\" a new feature that highlights stories and videos provided both by outside publishers and by Snapchat's in-house team of journalists and videographers. The new service is ad-supported, with Snapchat selling ads against media provided by networks such as ESPN, Vice, and CNN, as well as its own content.\nDiscover features videos, articles, and photos cherry-picked from these networks to appeal to Snapchat's young-skewing userbase. The company described the functions of the new feature in a blog post published today . Users can tap to open an \"edition,\" swipe left to browse the snaps inside, or swipe up on a Snap for expanded content.\nDiscover lives to the right of your contact list, and at today's launch features content from 11 different partners in a grid of circular logos. (In the middle of the grid is a black Snapchat logo for the company's new \"snapchannel,\" where it will feature its own finds from other content creators.) After tapping to open up an edition, Snapchat's UI disappears to allow for each company's custom full-screen experience. Publications like CNN, Cosmopolitan, and The Daily Mail are using it in a similar way to how magazine apps tend to work. Each page of the edition teases a different story, with full text and videos accessible by swiping up. Text can even be copied and pasted, but there is no ability to share selected text as of now. With most editions, a video ad appears every few pages.\nOther companies are using Discover in different ways. Comedy Central's channel consists of quick teasers from shows like The Daily Show, Broad City, and Workaholics, with full videos available below each clip. Food Network shows off popular dishes and lets you swipe up to see recipes. ESPN mixes a few Sportscenter Top 10 highlights in between pages that show heavily designed stats from different leagues. Playing off of the daily structure of Snapchat's stories, basically every edition's final page is used to encourage users to come back in 24 hours.\nHaving just been released, there are some issues. The audio from some of the full-screen videos kept playing even as I scrolled to the right through the rest of the respective editions. And while the app manages moving graphics and video loading well enough, quick swipes can hang it up here and there.\n","Title":"Snapchat's new Discover feature puts news and entertainment a swipe away from your stories | The Verge","Tags":["apps","tech"]}