{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nThe development of Aaron Sorkin's upcoming Steve Jobs biopic has been a troubled one, with the film ultimately being  picked up by Universal Pictures after Sony unceremoniously dropped it last month. Now, emails leaked with the recent Sony breach reveal that Sorkin originally wanted Tom Cruise to play the lead role. However, it was the decision to go with Michael Fassbender that caused Sony to drop the movie altogether.\nAccording to Ars Technica , Sorkin sent a series of emails on October 31st \u2014 just days before  Christian Bale was officially out as Jobs\u2014 naming Cruise as the ideal choice, even saying he could put on a \"dazzling performance:\"\nI just got off the phone with Danny who's concerned about the age but I think I got him thinking about it and he's going to look at some scenes from Lions for Lambs where Tom's basically auditioning for Jobs. He's also concerned that the choice will be met with derision because it's such a commercial choice but I honestly think that ends up working for us. Tom's going to surprise some people and they'll want to reward that. I don't think we'd have to recast Woz. Seth's the right age in the first act and Tom's the right age in the third. And the movie announces itself pretty quickly as not being literal--as being a painting rather than a photograph. Look, I wouldn't cast Clint Eastwood but if I saw Tom Cruise flying around the backstage corridors of Symphony Hall I wouldn't think he was too old. I think it would be dazzling performance.\nDirector Danny Boyle decided to go with Michael Fassbender, however, and the studio couldn't drum up enough financing to support the decision, allowing for the movie to move to Universal. Sorkin reportedly said, \"Fuck it. He's a great actor whose time has come,\" when the studio moved forward on the decision.\n","Title":"Sony documents show Aaron Sorkin wanted Tom Cruise to star in Steve Jobs biopic | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}