{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nRemember the jukebox? No, not the rock and roll machine hugging the wall at your local dive bar, but the digital music players we all used to manage MP3s back in the late 2000s. There was Winamp, Musicmatch Jukebox, and later iTunes. These apps listed your library of songs track by track and often featured big, visible play \/ pause \/ forward buttons that emulated the look of a car dashboard. They all seemed to agree that this is how your music should look.\nIn the age of streaming music, meanwhile, Spotify has seemingly taken the lead. Part of its appeal has always been in its no-frills, familiar jukebox interface which made streaming music as easy as using iTunes. But as of late, Spotify has looked a bit archaic, a relic of the post-Napster era where \"click to play\" was a killer feature. Today, Spotify is rolling out perhaps its biggest design update ever for  web ,  iPhone , Android, and Mac \u2014 a revamp which draws liberally from competitors like Rdio while establishing one identity across platforms for the first time. Spotify is finally moving beyond the jukebox.\nThe update adds handsome Proxima Nova type, rounded iconography and buttons to reflect the company's new-ish logo , large photos on artist pages, and a dark color scheme that accentuates important areas (like play buttons) with Spotify's trademark green. The service also now uses circular avatars to represent people and square avatars to represent albums. No longer is every Spotify page just a list of tracks. \"This is the first redesign this big that we've done,\" says Michelle Kadir, Spotify's director of product development. \"We've done bits and pieces along the way and launched on new platforms, but this is the first we've done of the whole service since the beginning.\"\nSpotify's new design uses circles to denote artists and squares to denote albums\nIf Spotify's new design looks familiar, that's probably because the company publicly tests most of the software and visual updates in its desktop apps before rolling them out to the masses. Today's update brings Spotify's new design to everyone, and more importantly to mobile \u2014 a domain where Spotify has traditionally iterated slowly. Spotify's new mobile app looks nothing like the old one with its dark new color scheme, Rdio-esque frosted glass, and an emboldened free shuffle feature which the company introduced last January to reel in new users.\n","Title":"Spotify's biggest redesign ever brings long-awaited Collection view | The Verge","Tags":["apps","report","design","tech"]}