{"Main text":"105 Comments\nWe know how it is. It's summer, the beach is calling, and you're spending as much time as possible hanging out in front of the grill. There just isn't that much room in your life for, say, binge-watching the most depressing show of the year or keeping up with the latest Tom Cruise vehicle. But if you're afraid of missing out, don\u2019t fret: even if the movie industry is done for the season, you aren't quite.\nSummer is the season when all of the biggest, most explosive, and most expensive movies come out, and this year was no exception \u2014 kicking off with the villain-packed Amazing Spider-Man 2 and closing out August with over-the-top titles like The Expendables 3 . This summer was also pretty huge for TV shows, seeing director Guillermo Del Toro start up a series and Kiefer Sutherland reprise his role as a counterterrorism agent for one more season of 24.\nBut it was the movies and TV shows that fell in between those that really caught our attention this year. Some of them are alien-squelching blockbusters, others are just inventive looks at the world, and every one of them is more than worth watching. Labor Day's coming up, so if you\u2019re tired of barbecuing already, then you'll have some time to start watching.\nOur top 9\nBoyhood\nBoyhood\nThere are a lot of coming-of-age stories out there, but none like this. Filmed intermittently over the course of 12 years, Boyhood actually shows its star as he grows from a child up into an adult. It's a remarkable film for that reason alone \u2014 but the fact that it'll have you reliving everything good and bad about childhood, from the awkward moments to the joyful ones, is a pretty great reason to watch it too.\nDawn of the Planet of the Apes\nDawn of the Planet of the Apes\nFor a movie about apes beginning to take over the earth, Dawn of the Planet of the Apes is surprisingly quiet. Rather than throw violence upon violence up at the screen, Dawn is defined by a pervasive tension that keeps viewers on edge, waiting for someone to slip up and throw the world into chaos. Of course, there's plenty of action too \u2014 it's a summer movie in the end, just a really smart one.\nEdge of Tomorrow\nEdge of Tomorrow\nThink you\u2019ve seen enough of Tom Cruise? We did too. But if you\u2019re feeling nostalgic for big-budget, alien-splattered summer blockbusters like Independence Day you could do a lot worse than Edge of Tomorrow. Cruise plays a rockstar military general \u2014 basically a PR shill for an unwinnable battle \u2014 with little to no combat experience until he gets, uh, stuck looping infinitely in time. Which means you get at least double, if not sextuple, of everything: helicopter crashes, imploding extraterrestrials, Tom Cruise dying in every way possible over and over and over again. Which is fine, since Emily Blunt is the real badass in the film anyway, and these are the kinds of movies summer is about.\nGodzilla\nGodzilla\nAll it had to do was beat 1998's disaster of a monster film. Gareth Edward's Godzilla, it turned out, was a monster of a disaster film (see what we did there?), focusing as much on the impact of the world around the creatures as it did the creatures themselves. The movie builds slowly, but if you're patient, the payoff is worth it.\nGuardians of the Galaxy\nGuardians of the Galaxy\nGuardians is poised to be the movie of the summer, which is an impressive feat considering how relatively unknown this galactic supergroup was before this year. Marvel pulled out all the stops for this funny, action-packed caper, infusing it with a classic sci-fi feel that threw us back to space-adventure movies of yesterday while also showing us a little bit more of Marvel\u2019s bigger movie ambitions. The whole cast shines, but in the end you know you\u2019re really watching it for Vin Diesel's Groot \u2014 and maybe that groovy, retro soundtrack, too.\nHalt and Catch Fire\nHalt and Catch Fire\nWhile it never became the runaway hit AMC needs to take the place of Breaking Bad and Mad Men, Halt and Catch Fire is an imperfect period drama with serious potential. Set in 1983 at the dawn of the PC revolution, its cast of characters \u2014 a shady former sales executive, a pair of talented yet haunted engineers, and computing wunderkind with a rebellious streak \u2014 come together to take on IBM at its height, only to be all but broken in the process. Lee Pace is especially magnetic in this series, and it\u2019s a good thing that AMC picked it up for another season because the work just isn\u2019t done yet.\nLast Week Tonight with John Oliver\nLast Week Tonight with John Oliver\nFollowing his successful stint filling in as host of The Daily Show, it seemed inevitable that John Oliver would get his own show. And he did, opting for HBO. While the first episode of Last Week Tonight seemed to stray little from the successful formula that Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert have honed, very quickly did it find its own voice and format \u2014 nixing the interview portion altogether in lieu of meaty, sometimes 14-minute pieces on a single story that are hilarious, opinionated, and very well-researched. Just think: because of Oliver, the FCC chairman had to publicly declare that he is not a dingo.\nWatch our favorite John Oliver segments: net neutrality , Ferguson , and Hobby Lobby\nThe Leftovers\nThe Leftovers\nThree years ago on October 14th, 2 percent of the world's population disappeared in an instant. Based on Tom Perotta's novel of the same name, HBO\u2019s The Leftovers keeps its story relatively grounded, focusing on ordinary people trying to cope with and understand an extraordinary, inexplicable event. Perotta co-created the show with Lost co-creator Damon Lindelof, and so far the two seem content to focus on the characters themselves without over-promising an answer to the Big Mystery.\nSnowpiercer\nSnowpiercer\nThis train has everything: a sauna, Medieval battle-axes, a dedicated rave car, Tilda Swinton, a torturous built-in punishment device. Snowpiercer, an English-language debut from South Korean director Bong Joon-ho, takes place on a what\u2019s basically an armored Amtrak: on it ride the last vestiges of humanity, driven from Earth as we know it by another Ice Age. The movie follows an international cast traveling from the back to the front of the train as they get in on some good old-fashioned class war. With whiplash editing and some of the most inventively claustrophobic fight scenes in years, Snowpiercer is a sure bet whether you stream it or see it in theaters.\n","Title":"Summer review: the 9 movies and TV shows you need to watch | The Verge","Tags":["culture","entertainment"]}