{"Main text":"The internet doesn\u2019t care about security\nPayPal's two-factor problems are the rule, not the exception\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nOne of the most trusted companies on the internet has been owned by a teen.\nWe learned this morning that PayPal's two-factor authentication setup has a fairly major hole in it, detailed here . The researcher who found it, a 17-year-old who has done impressive work spotting vulnerabilities in Australian government sites, first reported the bug to PayPal back in June, but after two months of radio silence, he went public.\nCompanies rarely care about security\nIt\u2019s not the first time PayPal has run into two-factor problems and it\u2019s not the first indication that two-factor might have its own issues \u2014 but for a company that handles money, it\u2019s not a good look. Users shouldn\u2019t panic, provided no one has their password, but there's a reason we tell people to sign up for two-factor authentication, so it's embarrassing to find PayPal using a poorly considered cookie that lets you bypass the whole thing. The company says it's \"working to get the issue addressed as quickly as possible,\" but it's not reassuring that, given two months of lead time, the company hasn't done anything to fix the issue.\nStill, it\u2019s not exactly surprising. Security researchers like these sorts of bugs because they make a living finding them, but the view from the corner office is very different. Companies rarely care about security, even if various people within the companies do. Good security is expensive. It often means structuring your service in a certain way that pushes users through an extra step or two, and that's a sacrifice most companies simply don't want to make.\nGiven the choice between security and usability, companies will take usability every time\nPayPal's bug is a great example. PayPal wanted to make it easy for eBay users to link their accounts, so the company set up a special cookie that identified anyone coming in from eBay. As it turned out, that cookie also let Rogers bypass PayPal's two-factor protections. Fixing it should be simple, just disable the cookie and make eBay users log in the old-fashioned way. But if PayPal did that, fewer users would link the accounts and it would cost the company money \u2014 more money than they're likely to lose as a result of this bug. Given the choice between security and usability, companies will take usability every time.\nThis is the central problem of every vulnerability report: researchers want to fix it and companies don't. I'm usually more sympathetic to the security side, but the companies have a point too. It's hard to make software with no vulnerabilities, just like it's hard to make a door that can't be broken into. As security ramps up, diminishing returns set in fast. You could put a three-inch steel door on your house, but it would be ugly and heavy and you don't want to. Instead, you trust that no one will want to kick in your door. Aside from once-in-a-generation bugs like Heartbleed , most security failures don\u2019t have much fallout, particularly for the companies that spawn them. Six months later, it\u2019s hard to argue that Goto-Fail had much effect on Apple\u2019s bottom line.\nInstead, the bad effects show up at an ecosystem level. We're left with a relatively unprotected web where nothing is perfect and ( as Quinn Norton put it ) everything is broken. Heavy-hitters like the NSA and China's Unit 61398 can buy up vulnerabilities and break into most systems, while anyone without a corporate security budget is left to fend for themselves. PayPal isn't the worst case \u2014 no one will die or go to jail over this bug \u2014 but it's one more example of why the world of security can seem so bleak. The problem isn't that we can't protect ourselves, but that we don't want to.\n8\/5 5:24pm EST: Updated to include PayPal's official response.\n","Title":"The internet doesn\u2019t care about security | The Verge","Tags":["us-world"]}