{"Main text":"The best smartwatch you can buy\nPut the future on\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nSmartwatches are going to be the next big thing. They\u2019ll keep us connected, keep us informed, and make it feel like we\u2019re living in the future. Virtually every mobile phone maker has dipped its toes into smartwatch waters, including Apple, which is going to release its much-hyped smartwatch next year. There are also a number of companies whose sole job is to make smart watches, and they've been doing some really interesting things.\nThe reality is that most people probably don\u2019t have a need for a smartwatch, at least not yet. But there are some uses for a smartwatch, and if you\u2019re already comfortable wearing a traditional watch on your wrist, there are some good reasons to consider upgrading to a smartwatch.\nA good smartwatch does three things: it makes it easy to see the time, it makes it easy to see notifications that show up on your phone, and it looks good, so you don\u2019t feel like you\u2019re wearing a computer on your wrist everywhere you go. It should allow you to keep your phone in your bag or pocket and only pull it out for important notifications.\nMany smartwatches do extra things too, such as counting your steps, performing web searches, and running a variety of apps. Some even let you do your best Dick Tracy impression, using your voice to order a pizza or send a quick message. But the best smartwatches focus on the core features and put the extra features on the sidelines.\nUnlike smartphones, which are all rather similar at this point, there are a ton of different smartwatches available \u2014 different shapes, different sizes, different platforms, different ideas of what makes a good smartwatch. If you want to live the future, today, this is what you should buy.\nShot on location at WeWork . Also available on  YouTube .\nThe Winner\nPebble Steel\nIf you\u2019re looking to purchase a smartwatch right now, the best option for most people is the  Pebble Steel . The Steel works with both iPhones and Android smartphones, is reasonably priced for a smartwatch, and looks good on most anyone\u2019s wrist. Its always-on LCD display makes it easy to see the time whenever you want, and a gentle flick of your wrist turns the backlight on, so you can read it in the dark.\nThe Steel is great for quickly viewing notifications from your smartphone, and if you have an iPhone, dismissing them without ever touching your phone (this feature is expected to come to Android later this year). That's the killer smartwatch feature most people are looking for, and the Steel nails it.\nPebble has been improving its platform quite a bit since its first model launched in the beginning of 2013, and there is now an app store to install custom watchfaces and apps that let you do things like check in on Foursquare or buy a coffee at Starbucks. The Steel can also count your steps or be used as a compass, and it can control music playback on your Android or iPhone.\nEven with those extra features, the Steel still lasts about five days between charges, which is a bit longer than most of the competition. The Steel\u2019s name comes from its stainless steel construction and it comes with a leather strap with an optional steel link bracelet available.\nThere's going to be a point where the Steel is outmoded and smartwatch technology is moving at a very rapid clip. But for right now, it's the best interpretation of what a smartwatch should be.\nThe Runner Up\nMotorola Moto 360\nThe Pebble Steel is the best smartwatch for most people, but if you want to do even more on your wrist (and don\u2019t mind dealing with some bumps along the way), the  Motorola Moto 360 is the option for you. The Moto 360 is one of the many Android Wear smartwatches available, but it\u2019s easily the best looking one you can buy. But because it runs Android Wear, it only works with Android smartphones, and can\u2019t even tell you the time if you have an iPhone or other smartphone.\nThe 360\u2019s round, full-color display is readable indoors and out, though it could stand to be a higher resolution. The standard model comes with a super soft leather band, but Motorola is offering a steel link strap as a more expensive option. Importantly, the Moto 360 just looks great, in contrast to the other Android Wear watches you can buy right now.\nThe Android Wear platform offers a ton of apps to add more functionality to the Moto 360, like the ability to delete emails from your wrist, add notes to your Evernote account, or call a cab without ever touching your phone. You can send messages or perform web searches with just your voice, and the 360\u2019s tight integration with Google Now offers you information when you need it most, like when your favorite football team is clobbering its rival or your flight has been delayed for two more hours and you should have another drink at the airport bar.\nBut even though Google has rapidly updated and improved Android Wear since its debut earlier this year, it\u2019s still not as stable or reliable as the Pebble, and it requires more setup and tinkering from you to get it working best. The Moto 360\u2019s display isn\u2019t always on by default, requiring more effort to check the time, and its battery life is less than half that of the Pebble\u2019s on a good day, despite the improvements Google has made to Android Wear's efficiency since launch. Fortunately, you can charge it on almost any Qi wireless charger, in addition to Motorola\u2019s special dock, and the 360 can be fully charged in just a couple of hours.\nThe Others\n","Title":"The best smartwatch you can buy | The Verge","Tags":["review","tech","this-is-my-next"]}