{"Main text":"The killer vehicles of James Bond\nLondon's Film Museum is hosting the largest collection of original 007 cars\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nWith the possible exception of Inspector Gadget, there is no better known or loved fictional gadget fiend than James Bond. Employing personal technology to achieve clandestine professional goals, Her Majesty's favorite secret agent has fascinated readers and film audiences for over half a century now.\nWhile trendy and forward-thinking in their time, Bond movies have since grown into valuable historic artifacts, portraying our evolving vision of near-future innovations. From the first car phones and GPS systems to jet packs and invisibility cloaks, they've offered an entertaining mix of the feasible and the far-fetched.\nThe recently opened Bond in Motion exhibition at London's Film Museum pays homage to the films' technological legacy, with a particular focus on transportation. All the iconic Bond cars are present, with BMWs, Aston Martins, and Rolls Royces joined by a selection of alternative vehicles. 007's amphibious Lotus Esprit, nicknamed Wet Nellie, sits alongside his Little Nellie single-seat gyrocopter and a selection of aggressively styled motorbikes. There are also speedboats, model helicopters and trains, plus some amusing memorabilia like Bond's evaluation report from 2012's Skyfall. As a whole, the collection offers a captivating journey into the futures we once imagined.\nThe Bond in Motion exhibition is open now and will run until the end of the year. All images courtesy of the London Film Museum.\nHint: Use the 's' and 'd' keys to navigate\nAston Martin DB5\nThe original and most iconic of all Bond cars, Aston Martin's DB5 made its debut in the third 007 film, 1964's Goldfinger. It has since reprised the role of Bond's favorite ride several times, including in the latest release, Skyfall. 2006's Casino Royale shows Bond winning the DB5 in a game of high-stakes poker, establishing his credentials as a savvy card player. The DB in the car's name represents the initials of longtime Aston Martin owner David Brown, under whose stewardship the brand rose to prominence.\nAston Martin DBS\nQuantum of Solace may not be remembered among the best Bond movies, but its opening sequence featured one of the most visceral and engaging car chases in the long-running series. Aston Martin's DBS was the unfortunate victim of that violent pursuit.\n","Title":"The killer vehicles of James Bond | The Verge","Tags":["culture","photo-essay","entertainment","tech"]}