{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nWith a new album, a high-profile MoMA retrospective, and a slew of concert dates, it feels like you can't throw a rock without hitting something Björk-related this month, especially in New York City. Unless, of course, you're chucking it in the direction of Spotify.\n\u201CI don\u2019t know why, but it just seems insane,\u201D the musician and performer told Fast Company earlier this month, about her decision not to put her ninth album, Vulnicura, on Spotify. The album had already been co-opted by electronic means; a leak in January, months ahead of its scheduled release date, forced her team to release it early on iTunes (a physical version, complete with new, anatomically innovative cover art , will be released sometime this month.) Björk has described that involuntary change in plans as serendipitous, later telling FastCo, \u201CI was dying to get this album out and over and done with. So I think in a way it was a strange kind of blessing.\u201D\nThat kind of quick-pivot, unfussy embrace of certain technological realities, should not be surprising to anyone who has followed Björk for any amount of time, but her reputation as a swan-wearing, back-to-nature, Icelandic fairy queen still endures. So when she decides to forgo Spotify for this album cycle \u2014 a particularly emotionally fraught one, if it matters \u2014 it's easy to write that off as a relic of the \u201890s, pushing 50, unwilling to adapt to the unceremonious whims of the all-consuming internet. There's a certain level of availability expected from any new release by a contemporary artist, and failure to capitulate to that means you're \"behind the times.\" Never mind that the rest of Björk's catalog \u2014 that's eight albums, five live albums, two soundtracks, and a greatest hits collection \u2014 are all available on the streaming service. (And never mind that dictating which platform or medium an artist releases their work on is pretty much the opposite of progressive.)\nBjörk in New York has always made a strange, delightful kind of sense\nHer resistance to Spotify is one thing Björk has in common with Taylor Swift, though there are plenty more I can name off the top of my head: the figurehead \/ tyrant double duty they both pull, their very personal opinions about the role music should play in people's lives, and of course, their adoption of New York City as a second home. Björk moved to Brooklyn Heights in the early 2000s with her then-partner Matthew Barney. (Vulnicura is largely a documentation of their brutal separation, or if you like, Swift's Red a decade and a child later, wrapped in frozen butterfly wings, and sunk to the bottom of a fjord.) The occasional candid paparazzi photos of her out and about in NYC make a strange, delightful kind of sense: the ever-adaptable fairy queen transplanted to a noisy, colorful cityscape, not dissimilar to the one she was in the video for \"Big Time Sensuality,\" riding around on a flatbed truck like a precious import from another planet.\nA projection of that video now spans an entire wall in the atrium at the Museum of Modern Art in New York. From multiple levels inside the museum, you can watch the then-28-year-old, skipping around anarchically and pushing her face up in the wide-angle lens. It's a jarring sight, both for Björk obsessives and museum snobs \u2014 it's also the most visible evidence of Björk's MoMA takeover for her much-ballyhoo'd retrospective exhibit, which opened this past weekend. Even in an airy space like this, it feels strange to take an artist \u2014 who, for all her idiosyncracies and trailblazing, is still a popular musician \u2014 trap her, and prop her up on a wall with a gallery tag. Down on the ground level, without the museum-issued audio accompaniment, she's oddly silent.\nThe retrospective is getting destroyed in the press\nThe retrospective is getting destroyed in the press. It's not hard to see why: in execution, it's convoluted, its small maze of darkened galleries especially inconducive to the throng of journalists packed in last Tuesday (and on Wednesday evening, distracted revelers stumbling upstairs from the Armory Party). In intention, it's less offensive \u2014 there is some version of this show, with its modest, but impressive collection of costumes and props, and with such a multifaceted creator at its center, that makes sense for an art museum. There's some version, at the very least, that doesn't end up being so curiously fans-only. (Why is there a framed, slightly animated image of the Homogenic album cover? Why is that girl Instagramming it?)\nWalking through Songlines, the central retrospective darkride (seriously, doom buggies would make this thing go much more smoothly), one kind of understands what Björk might have been afraid of when MoMA curator-at-large Klaus Biesenbach referred to the long campaign to get Björk to agree to an exhibit at all. Since he first approached her in 2000, she had continually been resistant to anything that would spend too much time dwelling on the past; Biesenbach eventually sold her on the idea of a \"future retrospective,\" whatever that is.\nShe might have done well to listen to her gut. As adeptly as Björk has trafficked in spectacle (she was the singer, after all, who once wore a dress big enough to cover an entire Olympics opening ceremony ), the Björk Machine has mostly stayed light on its feet, always more interested in its next iteration of the project than its last. She \"changed looks\" with purposeful fluidity long before Gaga and Katy. (She's more a contemporary of Madonna's, which simultaneously makes all and none of the sense.) Her atavism is outweighed by her futurism; either that or she finds a way to make them harmonious, never more perfectly exemplified than in her lyrics on Post's \"The Modern Things,\" released in 1995:\nAll the modern things\n","Title":"The Modern Things: Björk Season in New York City | The Verge","Tags":["culture","report","entertainment","music"]}