{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nAston Martin's new Vulcan is aptly named. Like the Roman god it borrows its name from, the British car maker's new, limited edition supercar is, well, blazing hot. Oh, and it shoots flames out of its side-exit exhausts. This is the most extreme Aston Martin ever made since the One-77, and just 24 will be going on sale. Each boasts a 7.0-liter V12 engine, upwards of 800 brake horse power, and a price tag of £1.5 million ($2.33 million, plus local taxes), with Aston Martin's CEO Dr. Andy Palmer describing it as \"a sports car for true sports car lovers,\" and promising that the Vulcan \"sets a whole new standard in the ultra-high luxury supercar class.\"\nHowever, buying a Vulcan isn't like buying a car \u2014 it's more like signing up to be a test pilot. You can't just take the Vulcan out on the road (it's track-only), and new owners are offered a free program of \"intensive track driver training.\" Essentially this means going back to driving school, but with a car this powerful, it's a must for all but the most experienced drivers. Plus, in this case, instruction is being given by Aston Martin Racing drivers such as Le Mans-winning Darren Turner, and the training cars are vehicles like the Aston Martin V12 Vantage S, Vantage GT4, and One-77. \nThe Vulcan itself is constructed around a two-seater carbon fibre monocoque and body (built by long-term Aston Martin's partner Multimatic), with the V12 engine mounted front-midship. There's an Xtrac six-speed sequential gearbox adapted from Aston Martin's GTE race cars and a magnesium driveshaft. The Vulcan has the same 2.8-meter wheelbase as the One-77, with the wheels equipped with ceramic racing brake discs measuring 380mm in diameter at the front and 360mm at the rear. Supercars need superbrakes. \nThere are official pictures below, but we'll also be bringing you more news on the Vulcan and other incredible cars from the Geneva International Motor Show next week.\nHint: Use the 's' and 'd' keys to navigate\n","Title":"This is the Vulcan, Aston Martin's craziest car ever | The Verge","Tags":["photo-essay","transportation"]}