{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nMicrosoft showed off a number of new features for Windows 10 on phones today, but in afternoon sessions at the company\u2019s press event, we got a closer look at what\u2019s coming. Most of the demonstrations focused on improving the built-in apps and features of Windows Phone, and fixing a lot of the oddities. That includes mail, maps, photos, Skype, and messaging.\nMail is one of the biggest improvements to the built-in apps. Microsoft is building a universal Outlook app across Windows 10 phones, tablets, and PCs that seems to be a lot better than what came with Windows 8 and Windows Phone 8.1. Word is built into the Outlook app, allowing you to author emails in a much richer way than before. This includes support for inserting tables and full text formatting. There\u2019s also a number of new gestures here. You can swipe right to delete an email, or swipe left to flag it. These actions are then synced to the PC, so you can pick up your flagged email at a later date.\nCalendar has also been improved here, and you\u2019ll get full Gmail support across phones, tablets, and PCs. The same goes for IMAP, POP, Exchange, and various other web mail services. Microsoft is finally bringing a much more complete mail experience that includes full support for rival services. It\u2019s a relief if you\u2019re a Windows or Windows Phone user.\nMail, calendar, and photos have all been significantly tweaked\nPhotos and camera have also been tweaked heavily on Windows 10 for phones. Following the same model as the Mail app, there\u2019s a universal photos app across phones, tablets, and PCs. This app surfaces images you take with the built-in camera, or even ones stored in the cloud on OneDrive and on other devices. The built-in camera is basically the Lumia Camera now, and features the same interface, quick ways to capture video, and the manual controls that Nokia first introduced with the Lumia 1020. The difference here is that if you have a HTC or Samsung Windows Phone then you\u2019ll get these improvements, as it\u2019s the default camera app. That\u2019s a good change and also a better way to avoid any confusion over which camera app to use. The photos app seems more powerful on the PC in these preview builds \u2014 with automatic correction \u2014 but a Microsoft rep promised that this automatic correction will come to phone eventually.\nMaps is also getting some expected improvements in Windows 10 for phones. Currently, there\u2019s HERE maps or Bing Maps, and it\u2019s a confusing mix of map apps for phones. Microsoft is moving to a single Maps app in Windows 10 for phones, and it includes turn-by-turn directions, Cortana integration, and everything you\u2019d expect from the existing Maps app. It\u2019s all powered by Nokia\u2019s HERE maps, but the app is made by Microsoft itself. If you search for a destination and it\u2019s within walking distance then you\u2019ll automatically get walking directions, whereas you\u2019ll get driving instructions if it\u2019s a little further away. When you enable the turn-by-turn directions, you can say \"Cortana, repeat that\" and the last step will be automatically repeated. Cortana is always listening in the Maps app to enable this type of functionality. It\u2019s thoughtful and subtle, but a great improvement for those who rely on Maps while driving.\nSkype and SMS, integrated at last\nMessaging is getting a lot better, and Microsoft is finally integrating Skype into Windows 10 for phones. You can SMS and Skype within the same thread, and switch between the two easily. There\u2019s even inline notifications so you reply inline. Notifications are also synced to the PC, so you can dismiss an app notification on a PC and it\u2019ll disappear from your phone automatically. Microsoft says it\u2019s only going to support carrier messaging services, SMS, and Skype with this tight integration, so don\u2019t expect to see WhatsApp or Facebook Messenger appear in the Windows 10 for phones messaging app.\nWhile Microsoft isn\u2019t showing everything about Windows 10 for phones, there are a few user interface changes here, and we\u2019re expecting to see more in the coming months. The Start Screen now has background images that drop behind Live Tiles instead of overlaying on top of them. That\u2019s a good change, and it feels more natural and consistent with how Android and iOS manage wallpapers.\nThere's also a new keyboard, with a joystick that lets you move the cursor around to edit text. It's a little easier than tapping on text and trying to align the cursor in the middle of a misspelt word.\nThe Spartan browser, which replaces Internet Explorer, is also in Windows 10 for phones, and a touch-optimized version of Office. We haven\u2019t been able to try either just yet, but we\u2019re expecting to hear more about the phone version of Windows 10 in the coming weeks as it enters preview in February.\nHint: Use the 's' and 'd' keys to navigate\n","Title":"This is Windows 10 for phones | The Verge","Tags":["microsoft","mobile","hands--on","tech"]}