{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nInternet TV is here. Sony kicked us off in earnest with the launch of PlayStation Vue (which currently remains in limited beta), but Dish is about to make a full-on push into a new TV experience aimed at cord cutters and millennials who've dropped or never even had a cable or satellite subscription. If you're someone who pays for Netflix (and maybe Hulu Plus) and borrows someone else's password to watch HBO Go, you're probably the type of person Dish is trying to sell this on. At a recent media event, CEO Joe Clayton recently said his company is aiming for the 18-35 demographic. \"I believe it's the launch of a whole new industry,\" he said.\nA new kind of TV experience is arriving\nDish's grand experiment is called Sling TV, and before going on, we need to point out that it has very little to do with the Sling brand you may already be familiar with. There's no direct partnership with Slingbox or Sling Media, though both it and Dish are beneath a single parent company, EchoStar. So right off the bat, it's a somewhat confusing name that Dish maybe could've done better with. Another thing: though this is a service designed by and coming from Dish, you wouldn't know it without being told. The satellite provider's own logo is nowhere to be seen on branding and marketing materials \u2014 a decision meant to underline that Sling TV isn't meant to compete with or cannibalize Dish's primary satellite business. It's a new product meant for consumers that Dish has never been able to sign on. \"It is a complementary service, not a supplementary service,\" said Clayton at a recent media gathering.\nThis isn't the cable experience you're used to\nBut what is Sling TV? For $20 a month \u2014 yes, twenty dollars \u2014 you get access to a lineup of cable networks that includes TNT, TBS, CNN, Food Network, HGTV, Cartoon Network, Adult Swim, the Disney Channel, ESPN, and ESPN2. ESPN is obviously a huge get for Dish and could earn Sling TV plenty of customers all on its own.  ESPN just ended another year as TV's leading cable network , and now you won't need a traditional cable package to watch it. For sports fanatics, that could prove enticing. But Dish has hinted that there may be limits on watching ESPN on mobile thanks to red tape from existing deals between the network and Verizon. We'll need to wait for the specifics on that.\nThere are no contracts involved with Sling TV. No commitments. You can buy it for a month and cancel the next if you're not sold on the idea. And since it's a true, over-the-top internet TV service, you can watch and take it anywhere. This really is TV everywhere; watch it on a Roku box in your living room, and then carry live TV with you outside the house on Android and iOS devices. You can also stream it on your PC or Mac with a web browser. Here's the initial list of exactly where you can tune into Sling TV:\nAmazon Fire TV\n","Title":"This is Dish's Sling TV: an internet TV service that lets you stream ESPN for $20 | The Verge","Tags":["front-page","hd-home","tech","ces-2015\",\"Additional Placements\"","\"sbnation"]}