{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nA WhiteHouse.gov petition demanding that pop star Justin Bieber be deported has somehow  managed to cross 100,000 signatures . That's the threshold required to earn an official response from the Obama administration. \"We the people of the United States feel that we are being wrongly represented in the world of pop culture,\" reads the petition, which was created immediately after Bieber's recent run-in with the law. \"We would like to see the dangerous, reckless, destructive, and drug abusing, Justin Bieber deported and his green card revoked.\"\nBieber, originally from Canada, was recently arrested in Miami for driving with an expired license, driving under the influence, and resisting arrest. (The former two charges have since been dropped.) \"He is not only threatening the safety of our people but he is also a terrible influence on our nations youth. We the people would like to remove Justin Bieber from our society,\" the petition says.\nSome Bieber fans are apparently convinced that the petition will actually lead to a permanent exit for the pop singer. The front page of We the People has been overrun with competing petitions begging the President to spare the 19-year-old. But Bieber's critics seem to outnumber his supporters by a wide margin; despite its dramatic pleas,  \"Stop Justin Bieber from getting deported\" has so far collected 1,445 signatures.\nThe whole idea of Justin Drew Bieber getting deported, is completely unfair. He doesn't deserve this.... With your help, we can stop it. He's human. He's not perfect. The media sees the bad side of him. Please. He's saved so many lives. Including mine. A lifesaver, Shouldn't deserve this.\nMisplaced commas and needless capitalization aside, the situation is another example of the silliness and irrelevance that often plagues We the People \u2014 a public tool designed to let Americans voice support for  legitimately important topics . The White House previously  raised the signature requirement after a petition calling for the US to build its own Death Star famously drew over 25,000 supporters.\nIn addition to his troubles in Miami, Bieber is also under investigation for allegedly pelting his neighbor's mansion with eggs. That case is said to be \"tightening up\"  according to CNN .\n","Title":"We the people want to deport Justin Bieber | The Verge","Tags":["policy","culture","us-world","entertainment"]}