{"Main text":"Why I still watch 'Lost' even though I know I should hate it\n10 years later, there's only one good reason to watch this show\nShare on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nLost turns 10 this week, and you know what? After 10 years of watching the show and nursing my bruised fandom, I think I can confidently say that it, as a show and apparent exemplar of the Golden Age of Television, is utterly broken. There, I said it. I\u2019ve said as much in lengthy conversations with friends. I\u2019ve said so to Damon Lindeloff himself in my deepest, darkest dreams. You\u2019ve probably thought much the same. But I have to also admit that, even knowing all of this, I\u2019m still watching after all these years. (To be perfectly honest, I\u2019m mid rewatch right now.) Why can\u2019t I quit you, Lost? Why do I keep going back?\n'Lost' stopped making sense long before the end of its run\nThat Lost stopped making sense well before the end of its run is common knowledge to the point of being obvious. But most everything I loved about the show \u2014 the questions we as fans were obliged to ask and expect answers to \u2014 wound up failing. For one, it\u2019s probably fair to say that every red-shirt character who wasn\u2019t a candidate \u2014 the extras seemingly without a higher purpose \u2014 might have had a life to go back to if not for the crash of Oceanic Flight 815. The show\u2019s obsession with good and evil wound up being muddled by the supposed embodiments of good and evil on the Island, which never really communicated clearly what was good or evil about the Island at all. And the show built up some tension between science and faith only to squander it at the 11th hour, instead giving us a feel-good finale that felt like a slap in the face to early fans.\nBut most egregious, the show gave viewers the feeling that there was something deeper at play here, that there was meaning to all this suffering somewhere in the South Pacific that\u2019s applicable to real life. That\u2019s not me projecting; the show actually did attempt to speak to the universality of human experience, only to muck it all up with a confused mythology and season-long jaunts through time and space. Most of the deep questions Lost asked never got satisfying answers if they got answers at all, and the mysteries the show planted throughout the series all seem silly when there\u2019s nothing solid in the narrative girding them. In short, this is some pretty bad television.\nYet I\u2019m still watching it, and that disturbed me (and my loved ones) to no end. I thought about it, and I tend to think I still watch it, aside from the inherent joy there is in hate-watching anything, because Lost, stripped of all its other conceits and pretensions, still manages to tell incredible character stories. Stock soap-opera characters \u2014 the leader, the rogue, the love interest, the doting father \u2014 get marooned on an island a la Lord of the Flies and the plot forces them to find new ways to survive\u2026 except there\u2019s also a smoke monster deep in the jungle capable of manipulating their fears, waiting to destroy them. And it all works because you\u2019re made to care deeply about the people caught in up in this mess.\nThe show is a master class in the art of creating characters worth caring about\nFrom start to finish, Lost is a master class in the art of creating relatable (if not wholly believable) characters and putting them in the most extreme situations imaginable. But while the show bent over backwards to raise the bar in terms of absurd things that could happen on the Island and off, it put just as much effort into grounding the characters, making them ultimately feel like human beings.\nNo one is ever depicted as perfect \u2014 many of the characters aren\u2019t especially likeable \u2014 but every lead and supporting role is fleshed out, every motivation is exposed, and every decision is rooted in the core of who that character is as a person. That alone keeps you around on the second, third, or fourth viewing even if you hate the things your favorite characters do or go through.\nThe finest example of a good character moment is Sawyer and Juliet\u2019s relationship in season five. The two of them, after being caught on the Island spinning recklessly through time like a skipping record, are finally forced to settle in the 1970s in the Dharma Initiative\u2019s midst. Neither has any real reason to get together. By then, we\u2019d already been forced to invest in either a Kate-Jack or Kate-Sawyer pairing. But the show flashes us three years into their relationship, and, in a single moment, sells their coupledom almost effortlessly because the characters have been through enough apart that we understand what they need and can provide for one another. Sawyer needs someone who doesn\u2019t cotton to his bullshit. Juliet needs someone who believes in her and isn\u2019t trying to own her. Both need to feel trusted. And in an instant, you were with them until the end. When Lost gets something right, it\u2019s really gets it right. It\u2019s people who serve as its beating heart, and who make watching worth it, far more than the show\u2019s many showy philosophical discussions.\nI no longer watch for answers. I watch for the characters\nShowrunner Carlton Cuse once told Entertainment Weekly , \"Very early on we had decided that even though Lost is a show about people on the island, really, metaphorically, it was about people who were lost and searching for meaning and purpose in their lives.\" I find this sentiment infuriating, partially because I agree with it. If Lost was never really about the Island, we should never have been asked what the Island was. But I\u2019m to this day convinced that if the final season took place in some far off galaxy, it would be bad TV I\u2019d willingly watch again and again because there\u2019s something about these characters that resonates no matter what nonsense situation they wind up in. At a point where I\u2019m no longer looking for answers, I\u2019d watch that season for the character moments.\nIf there\u2019s one thing that Lost proves, no work of art or fiction need be perfect. Lost is probably the furthest thing from perfect, but it made an art of making you care. It did weird, wild things, and kept you there because the people you cared about were going through them. I don\u2019t care about the Island anymore. I care about the people on it. Now, if you\u2019ll excuse, I have some rewatching to do.\nEven\n","Title":"Why I still watch 'Lost' even though I know I should hate it | The Verge","Tags":["culture","tldr","entertainment"]}