{"Main text":"Share on Facebook Tweet Share Pin Share\nBuilding a smart home should be fun. You should be excited about how easily you can set the lights to turn on when you enter the house, and tell the thermostat to turn down when you leave for the day, and get the doors to automatically lock at the end of the night. These are all little things \u2014 and they've all been possible for years and years and years \u2014 but only this year are they starting to be things that a lot of people are actually going to want to learn how to do.\nWhat finally changed? There are a lot of reasons, but the biggest one is that the smart home, for now, is beginning to coalesce around controlled ecosystems that are guaranteed to work and are easy to jump into \u2014 two of which are made by Apple and Google.\nThe newcomer at CES 2015 was Apple, thanks to its upcoming smart-home platform HomeKit and the vendors showing their first products for it. In essence, HomeKit means that anyone who owns an iPhone can go out and buy the first piece to their smart home (when products finally hit stores in a few months). Assuming the software works, it\u2019ll be just like buying a new iPhone accessory \u2014 only now, it's something that'll control your lights or open your garage door.\nTo a lesser extent, Google-owned Nest is  building out an ecosystem of products that connect to its smart thermostat and smoke detector. Once you own a Nest product, you can start buying lights and door locks and so on that interact with them.\nThe two systems work differently, but their approach to creating a vibrant and accessible ecosystem is the same: they\u2019re both based around a single, important product. You probably already own an iPhone or an iPad. And you probably want a product from Nest because it makes the only cool thermostat and smoke detector ever made. Once you own either of those, it becomes a matter of accessorizing \u2014 not buying home infrastructure.\nNeither of these are full, perfect home automation solutions \u2014 especially not Nest, which really doesn't grant the home owner a significant amount of control. But they do make creating a smart home fun. There are cool products to buy and cool things that you can do with them. Most smart homes will be built piece by piece, and people need to want to buy those pieces before the average home is going to get any smarter.\n\"Our research has told us consumers like point solutions,\" says Jason Johnson, CEO of  smart-lock maker August . \"They want best in class of different solutions \u2014 the best thermostat, the best light bulb.\"\nNest and August work because they're cooler than anything before them\nThere's a dichotomy forming in the smart-home world. On one side is the old way of building a smart home, where you buy a smart-home hub and then pick up a bunch of staid-looking smart-home equipment that works with it. On the other side is the new way of building a smart home, where you buy a single interesting smart product and add new ones to your home piece by piece. These products are the Nests and Augusts of the world \u2014 hip, clean, and totally unlike what you'd expect from a home appliance. It's these stylish and simple products that are going to become the first building blocks for most consumers\u2019 smart homes.\n\"That's how you move out of a niche market to a real high-quality Internet of Things market,\" Johnson says.\nAt CES this year, it's clear that that's happening. Enough HomeKit products were on show to  build the basis of a smart home . Nest  added a ton of new partners . And if you don\u2019t like Google or Apple, that\u2019s fine too. Another system, Belkin's WeMo, unveiled a number  of new sensors and partnerships . And while there was no news for the Wink system this week, it's already filled with a ton of stylish smart products.\nIs it bad that the broader smart-home market is kicking off through these controlled ecosystems? Maybe, but not necessarily for the immediate future. Because all of these systems certify products before allowing them in, we get ecosystems of devices that are guaranteed to work together, that are more than likely not going to break vital functions of our homes, and that should be secure. That's not a bad place to be in.\nThe issue comes later on, when we don't just want our homes to be smart, but to be interconnected. We are going to want every device, appliance, and screen out there to connect somehow \u2014 for there to be a true Internet of Things. Samsung got up on stage earlier this week and said that in order for there to be a vibrant IoT,  all of the things have to be open . And that isn't exactly the direction we're headed in.\n\"Open to me means we want to maximize choice.\"\nAt the same time, Alex Hawkinson, CEO of Samsung's SmartThings, doesn't see these controlled systems as being totally incompatible with with the idea of openness. What matters is that, at some level, every device within them is willing to talk to outside devices \u2014 even if it doesn\u2019t speak their language.\n\"Open to me means we want to maximize choice,\" Hawkinson says. \"Likewise, it means that developers and device makers can innovate.\" As an example, Hawkinson says that a person should be able to buy a product from one company and use an app from another. \"On the consumer side: freedom on both layers.\"\nAnd that is possible, to some extent, with these managed systems. Even HomeKit, in a roundabout way, is capable of working with some outside products. More importantly, many products can work with more than one system. August's smart lock will work with both Nest and HomeKit  and its own partners . iHome's HomeKit power switch can also be controlled from an Android app.\nGiven the current state of the market, Samsung has placed its bet on SmartThings, which is effectively a translator for the smart home and the Internet of Things. Want to make a Z-Wave door lock control a Wi-Fi light bulb? SmartThings has you covered. This isn't what true openness looks like, but it is workable.\nEach ecosystem could grow more open\nAnd the situation could get better. Hawkinson says that SmartThings is pushing for true openness \"at all the layers: connectivity, device, cloud.\" His thinking is that as smart-home products begin shipping in higher volumes, some trend in communication will emerge. \"I think we'll be able to narrow to a few, robust standards,\" he says. And it's there that broader openness is key.\nIt\u2019s not unreasonable to believe that Apple or others making controlled smart-home systems will listen. One device manufacturer we spoke with suspected that this very thing would happen as these systems develop and the basics \u2014 like security \u2014 are nailed down. The hope is that they just need to get on their feet. Once they\u2019re standing, Samsung and SmartThings will be around to suggest where they should go next.\n\"The focus is on the emergence of open platforms,\" Hawkinson says. That emergence might not come soon, but it is coming. \"The move from early adopter into the mass market is happening right now.\"\n","Title":"You can finally build a smart home without being an engineer | The Verge","Tags":["hd-home","report","tech","ces-2015"]}